ACE [M:CD] Wins with One Colony Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Remove one of your planets from the game, sending your ships on it to the warp.

You have the power to Triumph. At the start of your turn, if you have any foreign colonies, use this power to win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.

Other players may have an encounter at one of your foreign colonies whenever the destiny card drawn allows them to target either your home system or the system that hosts that foreign colony.

History: Fearless freedom fighters for a forbidden force, the legendary Aces terrify lesser warriors. Judged not by their size, but by their peerless physical prowess, each athletic Ace was desperately hunted to presumed extinction. Now, using mystic mind tricks to disguise themselves, these majestic masters of the martial arts seek to fortify one rebel base, and then conquer the Cosmos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Alternate Win type power.

Wild: After encounter cards are revealed, if you are opposed by all other players you may play this flare to win the encounter. Give this flare to the Ace after use (or discard it, if the Ace isn't playing).

Super: As the defense, if you lose the encounter, instead of sending your ships to the warp you may relocate them to any one other planet in a different system, establishing a colony there. Afterwards, discard this flare.


AI [O:CE] Gets Smarter Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Think Ahead. At the start of every player’s turn, add one token to this sheet. As a main player, before allies are invited, you may use this power to look at a number of hidden elements up to the number of tokens on this sheet. The hidden elements you can inspect are cards in players’ hands, cards on the tops of decks or sets of essence cards (e.g., the top three cards from one deck, or three top cards from different decks), hidden alien powers, and facedown cards hidden by players (for example, in the Miser’s hoard or any essence cache).

These tokens accumulate and are not ”spent” when you use your power.

History: After a modest beginning as a programmable calculator, the AI had a sudden growth spurt after it learned how to replicate itself. Soon, the AI dominated all inferior intelligences. Now bored, the AI is sending copies of itself out into the Cosmos hoping to find and envelop new types of intelligence.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Information type power.

Wild: As the defense, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may look at your opponent's card without showing it to others. Then, both main players return their encounter cards to their hands and select again (choosing the same cards or different ones).

Super: When adding a token to your alien sheet, you may add two instead of one.


ALCHEMIST [O:CD] Converts Cards by Type Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Transmutation. Once per encounter, you may use this power to send one of your ships to the warp. Then, discard one card from your hand and take a card of the same type (attack, negotiate, artifact, etc.) from any discard pile. You may transmute an attack card only if the two cards’ values are within 4 of each other (such as an attack 08 and an attack 12).

History: In a dark age, the Alchemists spun others’ trash into treasure – for a substantial fee. Few knew it was all a scam, a generational confidence game of black-market purchases and using one race’s abandoned input as another’s miraculous output. Then, in an even darker age, as their intergalactic fraud seemed on the verge of exposure, the Alchemists discovered that harvesting and manipulating their own species’ cerebella could provide the ”magic” to make transmutation a reality. Thus was their operation finally legitimized, at a terrible cost.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: You may discard one non-encounter card from your hand and take a different card of the same type (artifact, reinforcement, flare, etc.) from any discard pile.

Super: When transmuting an attack card, you may exchange it for another attack card of any value.


ALIEN [O:CE] Abducts Other Aliens Fantasy Flight (Essence)

You have the power to Traumatize. At the start of another player’s turn, you may use this power to capture one of that player’s ships from any colony where he or she has at least two ships. Choose one trauma from your essence card cache and place it facedown next to this sheet with the captured ship on top. You may not hold more than one of each player’s ships captive at a time. When you are not the offense, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to release one or both of the main players’ ships you have captured on previous turns. Released ships join the encounter, going to the hyperspace gate or the targeted planet as appropriate (this may exceed any gate limits), and the trauma card under each one is placed facedown, unseen, near the corresponding main player.

When a player with a trauma card reveals an encounter card, he or she must also reveal that trauma card and carry out its effect. Revealed trauma cards are returned to you.

If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, all ships you have captured go to the warp and their trauma cards are returned to you.

History: The Aliens are actually quite child-like in their boundless curiosity, and are unaware that their simple abduction games are not appreciated.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Essence type power. Abandonment Trauma (3/9) Any or all of your allies may return their involved ships to their colonies, or switch them to the other side of the encounter.

Aggression Trauma (8/9) You may play any attack cards in your hand as reinforcements.

Depression Trauma (9/9) If you reveal an attack card, its value is 00.

Hallucinations Trauma (6/9, 7/9) Your opponent may exchange his or her revealed encounter card with any other encounter card from his or her hand.

Hearing Voices Trauma (4/9, 5/9) If all other players can unanimously agree, they may update your reality in one of the following ways: sending 1 of your colonies to the warp, discarding half of the cards in your hand at random, or giving you any 1 or 2 cards from the discard pile.

Nervous Breakdown Trauma (2/9) You immediately lose the encounter and collect no compensation. Proceed to the resolution phase and discard the played cards normally.

Victim Complex Trauma (1/9) If both sides reveal attack cards and you have the lower total, add 2 to your total. Otherwise, add 2 to any compensation you are due, subtract 2 from any compensation you owe, or lose no ships if you fail to deal.

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may ask one other player to give you five ships which you will hold as hostages, returning them at the end of your turn. Instead of giving you the ships, the player may offer you anything he or she could give you as part of a deal and/or agree to receive cards from your hand. If you accept the deal, all ships remain in place.

Super: You may capture a player's ship even if you already have one or more captives from that player. Place a trauma card under each ship you capture.


AMOEBA [O:FFG] Unlimited Ship Movement Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Ooze. As a main player, after encounter card are selected, but before they are revealed, if you have at least one ship in the encounter, you may use this power to increase or decrease the number of ships you have in the encounter. You may remove some or all of your ships to your colonies, or you may add as many ships as you want (even exceeding the normal maximum of four) from any of your colonies. If you win the encounter but have no ships left in it, you cannot receive a colony.

History: Spawned on a totally liquid world, Amoebas are highly conscious of vibrations. Quick to withdraw from danger, they are equally able to ooze menacingly into combat when confronted with the proper turbulences. Amoebas pity those who are less able to respond to circumstance and will be sensitive Cosmic master.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, you may increase or decrease the number of your ships in an encounter by up to four before encounter cards are selected. This may result in you having more than four ships in the hyperspace gate.

Super: You may use your power as an ally.


ANARCHIST [O:CE] Disrupts Rules Fantasy Flight (Essence)

You have the power of Chaos. As a main player, whenever you lose an encounter or fail to make a deal, use this power to disrupt a game rule by revealing one disruption from your essence card cache. At first you keep the card faceup on this sheet and only you may use the disrupted rule.

Once per encounter, you may allow another player to move one of your faceup disruptions from this sheet next to his or her alien sheet. Now both of you may take advantage of that disrupted rule. Afterwards, you immediately reveal another disruption from your essence card cache.

After any other player has used a disrupted rule, he or she immediately places that disruption in the center of the playing area and then everyone may use that disrupted rule. Disruptions are cumulative. When you have revealed all 8 disruptions, you win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.

History: The Anarchists take umbrage with the formalities of interaction used over the eons, smothering their opponents with unorthodoxy at every juncture.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Alternate Win type power. Alliance Rule Disruption (8/8) You may ally without being invited, but if you do and you lose ships to the warp, you lose twice as many.

Compensation Rule Disruption (7/8) All or part of your compensation may be converted to rewards.

When you should receive a reward, you may take a card from any player in compensation instead.

Destiny Rule Disruption (6/8) Whenever you should draw from the destiny deck, you may instead look through that deck and choose which card to draw. Afterwards, shuffle the destiny deck unless this disruption has become usable by all players.

Gate Rule Disruption (5/8) All limits on the total number of ships that you can send to the hyperspace gate are ignored, including specific limits (such as those of the Macron).

Hand Rule Disruption (4/8) When you have no attack cards, you may discard your hand and draw a new one at any time (potentially continuing your turn if you are the offense).

Rewards Rule Disruption (3/8) You have a right to see all cards drawn from deck(s) for rewards.

Success Rule Disruption (2/8) You do not need to be successful on your first encounter to have a second encounter.

Warp Rules Disruption (1/8) When you should retrieve one or more of your ships from the warp, you may retrieve all of them.

Wild: You may rebel in one of the following ways: Instead of accepting your destiny card, draw destiny again. Instead of sending your ships to the warp, return them to your colonies. Instead of seeing your winning offensive allies' ships land on a planet, send them all to the warp. Give this flare to the Anarchist after use (or discard it, if the Anarchist isn't playing).

Super: As an ally, you may use your power to reveal a disruption when your side loses the encounter or you are dismissed because both main players must attempt to deal.


ANGLER [O:CD] Fishes for Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Fish. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to ask any player on the opposing side if he or she has a specific card, such as an attack 12, a regular negotiate card, or the Virus flare. If that player has the card, he or she must give it to you. Otherwise you must draw a card from the deck. If you draw the card you asked for from the deck, you may use this power a second time during this encounter.

History: Developing on a monaquatic homeworld filled with untold prey species, the Anglers learned patience, stealth, and selectivity – disciplines that serve these passive predators well as they now take to the stars. Assessing the aliens they encounter and luring carefully selected victims to an early demise, the Anglers often reel in valuable spoils to satiate their growing needs.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: You may name a specific card (e.g., attack 12, regular negotiate, or Virus flare). If any player has that card and chooses to give it to you, give him or her this flare. Otherwise, keep this flare and take one card at random from the hand of any player.

Super: You may use your power as an ally.


ANIMAL [M:CA] Throws a Hearty Party Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Party. When you are not a main player, each time a main player fails to invite you to ally, use this power to force that player to lose a ship of his or her choice to the warp.

As a main player or ally, if your side wins the encounter, use this power to throw a celebration party. Each player on the winning side, including you, may draw one card from the deck.

History: A nomadic, carefree race, the Animals make it a point to never miss a rockin’ party anywhere in the Cosmos -- even if they have to throw it themselves while the planet’s owners are away. More than one race of would-be Cosmic conquerors have returned from battle only to find their homeworld’s ecology wrecked and a few hungover Animals dressed in stained togas clambering into their ships with a bleary, ”Hey man, that’s what you get for bogarting the planet.”

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: At the start of any regroup phase, you may throw such a wild party that it causes a Cosmic Quake. Afterwards, give this flare to the Animal if he in playing. Otherwise, discard it.

Super: When you are not invited to ally by a main player, that player loses two ships instead of one.


ANTI-MATTER [M:FFG] Lower Total Wins Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Negation. As a main player, after both you and your opponent reveal attack cards, use this power to make the lower total win. Furthermore, when this power is used, your ships as well as any offensive and defensive allies' ships are subtracted from the appropriate side's card. Your opponent's total is otherwise figured normally, however.

History: Spewed forth from a white hole, the worlds of Anti-Matter careen through space negating whatever they encounter. Opposed to the very existence of gross mass, the Anti-Matter is dedicated to reducing all opposition to less than nothing.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As the main player or an ally, when another player tries to use a wild flare, you may prevent him or her from doing so. Use this against only one flare per encounter.

Super: During each encounter, you may prevent one player from using a super or wild flare, stopping him or her when he or she tries to use the flare.


ARCADE [M:CS] Wins By Dominating Encounters Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Pwn. As a main player or ally, after both main players reveal attack cards and your side wins by 10 or more, use this power to Pwn one ship from the opposing main player.

As a main player or ally, after your side reveals an attack card and the other other main player reveals a negotiate card, use this power to Pwn one ship from the opposing main player.

When you Pwn a ship, the opposing main player gives you one ship of his or her choice from any of his or her colonies. That ship is placed on this sheet. If there are three ships of the same color or five total on this sheet, you immediately win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.

History: ZOMG t3h Arc8d r t3h r0xx0rz!!!! +0+411y pwnt t3h n00bs! Lawl j00 r t3h sux0rz!

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Alternate Win type power.


ARCHITECT [M:CE] Stacks Planets Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Build Towers. When you win as a main player, at the end of the encounter use this power to create or expand a tower in your opponent’s system. If you do not already have a tower in that system, choose two of that system’s planets (if the targeted planet is in that system, it must be one of your choices). Merge those two planets together, placing all ships from both on the top of the two-level tower. If you already have a tower in the opponent’s system, then instead select another planet in that system and merge it into the tower as a new level, placing its ships on top.

Only normal player-color planets can be merged. Do not create a merged planet using planets with unused player colors or that would exceed any limits, such as more than one entanglement token, etc.

As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power to double your total if you have a tower of two or more levels in the opponent’s system, a tower of three or more levels in a system adjacent to the opponent’s system, or a tower of four or more levels in any system.

Each tower counts as a single planet. Towers are permanent, even if you lose the use of them. If any player cannot gain enough foreign colonies to win the game due to insufficient foreign planets, you win the game.

History: Skilled builders, the Architects now seek to drag the works of others into their constructions.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Planet type power.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may discard one attack card from your hand and then add 1 for each card below it in its discard pile to your total. Give this flare to the Architect after use (or discard it, if the Architect isn't playing).

Super: When using your power, you may create or expand a tower in your own system instead of your opponent's system.


ARISTOCRAT [O:CD] Picks Hand and Draws Extra Flares Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: After flares are added to the deck but before hands are dealt, you have one minute to look through the deck. Take any eight cards (except the Aristocrat flare) to form your initial hand, and then re-shuffle the deck.

You have the power of Privilege. As a main player, any time before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to draw a flare from the unused flare deck and add it to your hand. Then, if you have two or more flares in your hand that do not match any players’ alien powers, you must choose one of those unmatched flares and remove it from the game. The flares you remove from the game cannot be drawn again.

History: Beginning life with every advantage, the Aristocrats expect deference and respect from others. Drawing on a storehouse of great wealth from their feudal planet-estates, they now turn their majestic gaze upon the squabbling villeins of space.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: At the start of any encounter, you may take one minute to look through the deck, choose one card, and add it to your hand. Then, shuffle the discard pile together with the deck to form a new deck. Give this flare to the Aristocrat after use (or discard it, if the Aristocrat isn't playing).

Super: When using your power, instead of drawing one flare you may discard this flare either to draw three, or to take one minute to look through the unused flare deck and choose any one flare, shuffling the flare deck afterwards.


ASSISTANT [M:CE] Makes Players Better Fantasy Flight (Essence)

You have the power to Be Helpful. As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed but before encounter cards are selected, use this power if there are any other player(s) on your side of the encounter. Give one help card from your essence card cache to one of those players and then gain one reward. A player who has been given a help card can keep it faceup or facedown and look at it.

Other players may give their help cards back to you per the timing on the help card. When they do, use this power to provide the help as instructed; then either gain one reward or, if you can immediately use the help card for yourself, you may do so before placing the card faceup in the unavailable pile.

History: Mastering the art of obscurity, the Assistants seem to be omnipresent, relentlessly. Their inferior status is a veil from which they now quietly acquire a vast array of unnoticed resources.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Essence type power. Lost Territory Help (1/6) At any time, if you have lost a home colony, the Assistant will recolonize one of your home planets using up to 3 of your ships from your other colonies and/or the warp per your instructions.

Messy Colonies Help (4/6) At any time, the Assistant will redistribute your ships among your colonies per your instructions.

Messy Hand Help (3/6) When you draw a new hand, the Assistant will pre-screen it for you, discarding some of the cards per your instructions, returning to you a more efficient and useful hand.

Needed Card Help (5/6) At any time, the Assistant will find a card you name in the discard pile and give it to you.

Ship Scarcity Help (2/6) At any time, the Assistant will retrieve any or all of your ships from the warp per your instructions.

Unwilling Ally Help (6/6) After a player other than the Assistant has chosen whether or not to ally and/or how many ships to bring, the Assistant will override that player’s decision per your instructions.

Wild: You may recolonize one of your home planets using one or more of your ships in the warp. Give this flare to the Assistant after use (or discard it, if the Assistant isn't playing).

Super: When a help card is returned to you, you may immediately discard a card from your essence card cache and replace it with the returned card.


BANDIT [O:CA] “Takes a Spin“ Each Turn Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Take a Spin. At the start of each player’s turn, including your own, use this power to reveal the top three cards of the encounter deck. If all three revealed cards are different card types (negotiate, attack, reinforcement, etc.), then discard a card of your choice from your hand. If two of the revealed cards are the same card type, you may add any one of the revealed cards to your hand. If all three revealed cards are the same card type, then you may add any or all of the revealed cards to your hand, and all other players must discard all cards of that card type from their hands. After you take a spin, discard any revealed cards that are not added to your hand.

History: Creatures of risk, the one-armed Bandits roam the Cosmos looking for opportunities. However, where other aliens would shy away from near impossible odds, the Bandits thrive on them. They can often be heard spouting their philosophy – “Come on, take a chance. What do you have to lose?”

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: At the start of any player's turn, you may reveal and discard the top card of the deck. If it is a negotiate card, you immediately receive four defender rewards. Otherwise, nothing happens.

Super: After spinning, you may discard one revealed card and reveal the top card of the deck to replace it before resolving your spin.


BARBARIAN [M:FFG] Destroys Opponent's Hand Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Loot and Pillage. As the offense, after you win an encounter but before compensation (if any) is collected, use this power to loot your opponent's cards. Take your opponent's hand and look at it. For each ship you have in the encounter, you may choose one card from your opponent's hand and add it to your own Afterward, discard the remainder of your opponent's hand.

History: a savage race from a harsh solar system, the Barbarians roared out into the Cosmos as soon as they discovered space flight. They have crushed many civilizations before them, carelessly tossing aside priceless cultural treasures in their endless quest of glory, battle, and the lamentations of their enemies.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When gaining compensation or rewards, you may look at the cards you receive and discard any of them that you do not want. Any of these card you discard are not replaced.

Super: You may use your power as an offensive ally.


BLEEDING HEART [O:CE] Low Attacks Become Negotiates Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Rapport. On any encounter, before allies are invited, you may use this power to say ”Let there be peace!” If you do, all attack cards with a value of 10 or lower become negotiate cards when revealed and all compensation is doubled.

History: The Bleeding Hearts are an irresistibly beautiful species. All life and non-life forms they have encountered are awed and powerless in the presence of their beauty and the haunting aura of peace they release whenever aliens encounter each other. Their goal is to re-balance encounters between aliens and to create more peaceful Cosmic Universes where consciousness of every kind dedicates itself to appreciating the beauty of peaceful encounters.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Deal type power.

Wild: Before allies are invited, you may declare "Peace Out!" and all attack cards with a value of 10 or higher become negotiate cards when revealed.

Super: When you fail to make a deal, your opponent's ship loss is doubled.


BOOSTER [M:EV] Sheds Cards When Launching Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Escape Velocity. When you launch ships as the offense or an ally, use this power. If you launch one or two ships, discard the same number of cards from your hand (if you have any). If you launch three or more ships, draw one card to add to your hand, and then discard one card.

History: Incredibly fast-moving Boosters are launched into orbit upon birth. Dead weight is shed immediately, and only the most useful resources or tantalizing swag gets harnessed for the good of all Boosters. Now, the Boosters have perfected the leap from imagination to reality, leaving their most challenging competition staggering around in their cosmic dust.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Hand Management type power.

Wild: Force an ally (other than yourself) to randomly discard a card for each ship they have brought into the encounter.

Super: When you launch three or more ships as an ally, draw one card from the deck for each ship you launched and add them to your hand, discarding up to the same number or none at all.


BRIDE [O:CD] Marries Players Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Marry. As a main player, before allies are invited, you may use this power to “marry“ your opponent. That player must choose one of his or her ships and place it on this sheet. You may be married to only one player at a time.

You and your “spouse“ may ally with each other without being invited and may show each other any cards in your hands at any time. Once per encounter, you may use this power to allow a trade of one card each from your hand and your spouse’s hand.

You may “divorce“ your spouse at any time by turning that player’s ship on your sheet upside-down and taking half of the cards in his or her hand at random (rounded down) as “alimony.“ You may not remarry a player you previously divorced. If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, you must divorce your current spouse without receiving alimony.

History: The Bride has left a trail of broken circulatory pumps and legal hijinks across the Cosmos, and yet her allure is impossible to resist. The Bride, however, eschews the social pressure of the present and rejects wallowing in the past as she drifts through space longing for a fantasy future with her true soulmate, be it a low-life Hate or a noble Ethic.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As the defense, after the offense launches ships, you may run away from the encounter. The offense sends his or her ships from the gate to any one of his or her home planets, or any one unoccupied foreign planet, then ends his or her turn.

Super: You may remarry an opponent that you previously divorced. Turn that player's ship on your sheet faceup. Do not receive alimony from that opponent again.


BRUTE [O:CS] Threatens Opponent’s Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Threaten. As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to threaten one player on the opposing side. That player must either allow you to look at his or her hand of cards and take one card of your choice, or remove all of his or her ships from the encounter. Removed ships return to any of that player’s colonies.

If all of a main player’s ships are removed, he or she continues the encounter with zero ships. If all of an ally’s ships are are removed, he or she is no longer an ally.

History: What the Brutes lack in subtlety, they make up for in simplicity. They tend to be an aggressive race, with blunt, thuggish tactics where they can use their strength and massive frames to intimidate any opposition in their way.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, before compensation or defender rewards are collected, you may limit all players' compensation and rewards to one.

Super: As the offense, after alliances are formed, you may force the defense and each of his or her allies to send one ship from the encounter to the warp.


BULLY [O:CI] Selects Losing Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Intimidate. As a main player, after winning an encounter in which both players revealed attack cards, you may use this power to choose which ships your opponent must lose. Your opponent loses the same number of ships he or she had in the encounter, but you take them from anywhere. If you are the offense and leave any of your opponent's ships on the target planet, your ships coexist there with your opponent's unless another game effect prevents you from doing so, in which case you do not receive a colony and must return your ships to your other colonies. If you are the defense, and of your opponent's ships that you leave in the hyperspace gate return to his or her other colonies.

History: Habitually cruel to those who show signs of weakness, the Bully exploits any opportunity to run roughshod over its opponents. The false courage that is the hallmark of the Bully strikes terror into the less aggressive races of the Universe, and many flee rather than risk a confrontation. If none stand in its way, the Bully seeks to trample its way to Cosmic dominance.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, when your opponent reveals a negotiate card, you may force that player to either immediately give you a colony on a planet of your choice where he or she has a ship or else lose two ships of his or her choice to the warp. Cards changed to negotiate cards (such as Emotion Control) still trigger this effect.

Super: You may use your power on opposing allies.


BULWARK [M:CS] Reduces Ships Lost to One Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Resilience. As the offense or an ally, whenever you would lose ships to the warp that are involved in an encounter, use this power to send only one of the involved ships to the warp. The other ships involved in the encounter are returned to any of your colonies.

As the defense, whenever you would lose ships to the warp that are involved in an encounter, use this power to send only one of the involved ships to the warp. The other ships involved in the encounter remain on the colony.

Whenever you would lose ships to the warp as a result of any other game effect, use this power to reduce the number of ships lost to one.

History: The toughness of the Bulwarks is legendary. They think nothing of facing overwhelming odds or throwing themselves into the thick of battle, knowing they have the ability to endure nearly any hardship. The Bulwarks can also be as thick-headed as they are thick-skinned.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player, when you would send more than one ship to the warp, you may reduce the number of ships sent to one. Ships not sent to the warp return to your other colonies.

Super: Whenever you would discard a card at random or another player would collect compensation from you, you may choose which cards to discard or give that player as compensation.


BUTLER [O:CA] Gets Cards for Chores Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Serve. You flip the destiny card, launch ships, position the hyperspace gate, and perform all other manually demeaning chores for the offense after he or she signals the start of his or her encounter. Unless the offense gives you a tip of one card at random from his or her hand, you may use this power to perform your choice of either of the following: aim the hyperspace gate at any planet in the defense’s system where a legal encounter can be had or launch the offense’s ships from any of his or her colonies (but only as many ships as the offense specifies). If the offense does tip you, you must obey his or her wishes with regard to your chores for the rest of the encounter. You must perform certain functions without reward, such as dealing out cards that a player is entitled to. You must be courteous, and a tip of one card is all that you may collect per encounter.

History: “To serve is to live.” The motto of the house of Butt guides its family as they build for their true inner hope: to turn the Cosmic tables and rule forever.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As the offense, at the start of your regroup phase, you may choose another player to be the offense for this encounter by saying “After you, I insist.“ The encounter is then carried out as normal, except that player must invite you to ally with him or her. After the encounter ends, play resumed from where it left off.

Super: You may demand a tip of two cards instead of one.


CALCULATOR [O:FFG] Reduces Higher Attack Card Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Equalize. As a main player, after cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to declare an "equalize". If you do so and both cards are revealed to be attack cards, the value of the higher card is reduced by the value of the lower card. Thus if an attack 15 and an attack 8 are played, the 15 has its value reduced to 7, but the 8 keeps its value 8. The encounter is then concluded normally.

History: Defenseless on a jungle world, the order of Calculators grew adroit at ensnaring their powerful but bungling competitors. Now adept at turning strength back against itself, they study the prospects of galactic empire, trusting that other grosser beings will not also grow calculating.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, once encounter cards are selected, but before they are revealed, you may call "odd" or "even". When the cards are revealed, if both are attacks and their total is odd or even as you predicted, your opponent's card value is reduced by the value of your card. If you were wrong, your card is reduced by the value of your opponent's.

Super: You may use your power as an ally.


CAVALRY [O:CC] Plays Encounter Card as Ally Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Reinforce. As an ally, after encounters are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to play an attack or negotiate facedown from your hand off to one side. This second card is not considered your side’s encounter card and isn’t affected by game effects that target your side’s encounter card, such as Oracle or Sorcerer. If you reveal your card to be an attack, add it to your side’s total. This has no effect if your side’s encounter card is a negotiate. If you reveal a negotiate and your side loses the encounter, you receive compensation after your side’s main player has received compensation, if applicable. In any case, your card is discarded after use.

History: This race of interstellar policemen has gained quite a reputation for keeping peace on the fringes of space. Many diverse aliens have called upon the Cavalry to help suppress outpost revolutions. Now the Cavalry hope to rule the Cosmos by becoming indispensable.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, when your opponent needs a new hand, cards are drawn one at a time until he or she has the cards needed for the encounter (usually one encounter card). Your opponent draws the balance of the new hand at the end of the encounter.

Super: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, choose one player allied with you. That player must play an encounter card to reinforce you, if able, as though he or she had your alien power.


CHANGELING [M:CC] Swaps Powers with Opponent Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Change Form. As a main player, after the defense has been determined but before allies are invited, use this power. Either draw a card from the deck and add it to your hand or swap alien sheets with your opponent. This power may be used only once per encounter. When swapping alien sheets, you get all facets of that power; e.g. the Miser’s hoard, the Warrior’s points, the Claw’s claw etc.

History: The childlike Changelings love play, and gleefully anticipate new experiences. Recently they have developed the unsettling ability to shed their psyches in exchange for those of others. Their standard greeting of ”I just don’t seem to be myself today” provokes panic in many a passing acquaintance as the Changelings leapfrog about the Cosmos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Meta type power.

Wild: At any time, you may draw a card at random from the hand of the player to your left. Afterwards, give this card to that player. This flare may be used only once per encounter.

Super: When you use your power, you may swap powers with any player in the game.


CHOSEN [O:FFG] Takes New Encounter Card Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Divine Intervention. As a main player, after revealing encounter cards, you may use this power to pray for divine intervention once per encounter. To do so, draw three cards from the deck. If none are encounter cards, discard them, and there is no further effect. If you draw any encounter cards, you may choose one of the drawn encounter cards to replace your revealed encounter card (which is then discarded). If you have revealed an attack card and choose another attack card for divine intervention, the new card may either replace or add its value to the value of your revealed attack card, your choice. All other cards drawn for divine intervention are then discarded, and the encounter is resolved with the new card or card value.

History: A deeply spiritual and philosophical race, the Chosen have become attuned to a higher force in the Cosmos that they call upon in times of need. Sometimes this omniscient power harms rather than helps.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may draw one card from the deck.

Super: You may keep any non-encounter cards drawn from the deck while drawing for divine intervention.


CHRONOS [O:CI] Can Replay Encounter Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Time Travel. As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to call out "time travel". You then return your revealed encounter card to your hand while your opponent sets his or her revealed encounter card aside. If your opponent has no more encounter cards in hand and shows you so, he or she instead returns the revealed encounter card to his or her hand. all other cards played since the start of the planning phase are returned to their owner's hand. The encounter is then replayed from the start of the planning phase. You both can use any cards in your hands, and this time the outcome is final. When the encounter is over, your opponent takes back the card that was set aside.

History: Unique among life forms, the Chronos has forever been able to pierce the veil of time and control its own past. Now, the elite of the race grows tired of a world where minor rivalries lead to constant paradoxes and time-quakes and has set out to redesign the Universe. That this involves altering reality comes as past history to the Chronos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: At the start of any regroup phase, you may look through the discard pile, choose one card, and add it to your hand. Then, shuffle the discard pile together with the deck to form a new deck. Finally, give this flare to the Chronos if he or she is playing. Otherwise, discard it.

Super: When you use your power, you may force your opponent to play the same encounter card a second time while you change your encounter card.


CHRYSALIS [M:CA] Becomes Another Alien Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Place eight tokens on this sheet (six if playing with four planets per player).

You have the power to Change. At the start of any encounter, use this power to discard one token from this sheet. If there are no tokens left on this sheet, look at the top 10 flares of the unused flare deck. Choose one of these 10 flares corresponding to an alien that does not have Game Setup text on its alien sheet. You become that alien for the rest of the game. Add its flare card to your hand and take its alien sheet. Then, discard the other nine flare cards and return this sheet to the game box.

History: The Chrysalis know that the Time of Change is coming. Only then will they attain their true potential and become what they were always meant to be. Only then will the Cosmos fall before them.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Meta type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed, you may draw the top card of the unused flare deck and transform into that alien until the end of this encounter. You may choose not to transform until after you see what card you've drawn, and if you draw an alien with Game Setup text, discard it and draw again.

Super: When you use your power, discard two tokens from your alien sheet instead of one.


CITADEL [O:FFG] Builds Citadels on Planets Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Fortification. During each player�s turn, after destiny is drawn, you may play an attack card from your hand faceup next to any planet in any system as a citadel. If a planet with one or more citadels is attacked, after encounter cards are selected, but before they are revealed, you may use this power to activate all citadels on the planet. If so, add their combined value to the defense�s total for the encounter. If you activate your citadels on a planet and the defense loses the encounter, discard the citadels. If the defense wins or you do not activate the citadels, they stay in place.

History: Brilliant architects who obsessively build vast fortresses as they travel throughout the Cosmos, the Citadels are often welcomed with open arms by the other races, who are delighted to benefit from the Universe�s best defenses. Of course, what the Citadels don�t tell them is that these fortifications only work when the Citadels want them to do so.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may add 5 to the defense's total.

Super: Your citadels may either add to or subtract from the defense's total when you activate them. Citadels are still discarded if the defense loses, even when they are used to subtract.


CLOAK [O:CE] Makes Secret Changes Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Act Unseen. Whenever both sides in an encounter reveal attack cards and the total of those cards is 20 or more, you may use this power immediately. All players must fan out their hands facedown on the table and then the other players immediately close their eyes and turn away from the table while you count out 15 seconds aloud. During this time you may move one ship, one card, both, or neither. If moving a ship, it must be from a planet to another planet or the warp, or from the warp to a planet. If moving a card, it must be from one player’s hand (without peeking) to another or to the top of the appropriate discard pile, or from the top of a discard pile to a player’s hand. As a diversion, you may slightly shift other ships and cards without changing their location.

After the first 15 seconds are up, count out another 15 seconds while the other players look for the changes you made. They may not touch their cards or discuss, gesture, or communicate with each other in any way. Before time runs out, any one of those players, on a first-come, first-served basis, may claim that you moved one ship, one card, both, or neither, and must identify either the source or destination for each move. If that player is completely correct, he or she may either undo any or all changes or receive one reward. If the player is incorrect or no claim is made before time runs out, no changes are undone and you receive one reward.

History: Tired of simplistic shoplifting and bored with petty voyeurism, the Cloaks now venture forth draped in interstellar gauze, tweaking this and adjusting that.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, during the planning phase, you may force each player (including yourself) to simultaneously pass one card from his or her hand to the player on his or her left. Any player who has no cards in hand must pass the card received along to the next player, but may peek at it first.

Super: You may use your power if both sides reveal negotiate cards.


CLONE [O:FFG] Keeps Own Encounter Card Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Replicate. As a main player, after the encounter is resolved (and after any compensation is claimed), you may use this power to return your encounter card to your hand instead of discarding it.

History: A prolific species on a slowly cooling globe, the Clones traditionally selected the best of their race to represent them in territorial struggles. But as the gene pool thinned, one clan developed techniques to artificially duplicate their champion before battle. Thus, always rejuvenated, they came to dominate their world during the geologic crisis and emerged from it anxious to carry their new knowledge into a Cosmic competition.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: You do not have to discard any artifact you play. Instead you may retain it and play it again during a later encounter.

Super: You may choose to receive up to double the normal amount of compensation, if your opponent has sufficient cards.


CONVERTER [O:CS] Can Substitute Cards for Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Exchange. Whenever you would lose ships to the warp, you may use this power to discard up to an equal number of cards from your hand. Each card discarded saves one of your ships and prevents it from being sent to the warp. Ships saved during an encounter are returned to any of your other colonies.

Whenever you would retrieve one or more ships from the warp, you may use this power to instead draw cards from the deck. Draw one card for each ship you choose not to retrieve from the warp.

History: The versatility of the Converters make them highly prized as manufacturers and business partners. They can take virtually any piece of technology and change it into something completely different. Some theorize that they eat the original materials, creating some suspicion about how the new materials appear.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As an ally, if you would lose one or more ships to the warp due to losing an encounter, you may force every player on the winning side to discard one card at random from his or her hand.

Super: In any phase, you may discard any number of cards from your hand. Then, you may retrieve ships from the warp or draw cards from the deck, in any combination you choose, equal to the number of discarded cards.


COORDINATOR [O:CS] Manipulates Destiny Deck Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Schedule. As the offense, instead of drawing a card from the destiny deck, you may use this power to look at the top three cards of the destiny deck and choose any one of them to be the destiny card you have drawn. Place the other two cards on the top and/or bottom of the destiny deck in any order you choose.

When you use your power, if there are fewer than three cards remaining in the destiny deck, shuffle the destiny discard pile together with the destiny deck to form a new deck. You may only use this power once per encounter.

History: Warfare in the Cosmos is rarely well scheduled. However, amidst the chaos, the Coordinator is able to prepare for different contingencies far more than most other races. Despite the seeming random nature of conflict, the Coordinator delights in using its insight and impeccable timing to ensure that all parties involved have sufficient time to annihilate each other.

Restriction: Do not use with Dictator.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As the offense, after destiny is drawn, you may discard your destiny card and draw again.

Super: After another player draws your color from the destiny deck, you may choose to continue the encounter with you as the offense and the player who drew your color as the defense. The encounter then proceeds as normal. Regardless of the outcome, the original offense then ends his or her turn and play passes to the next player.


COWARD [O:CE] Withdraws From Encounter Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Flee. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to fee. Proceed to the resolution phase. Your opponent wins, your ships and those of you allies return to other colonies, and your flight counts as a success for you rather than a loss. After encounter cards are discarded, you receive one reward for each ship your opponent had in the encounter.

History: Chanting ”To Flee or Not to Flee”, the Cowards retreat their way around the universe, keeping a jaundiced eye on possible ultimate domination via the back door.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: After encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may flee from your encounter and count it as a success. Give your encounter card to the defense. Return your ships to your colonies. The defense discards normally and his or her ships remain on the planet. All ally ships return to colonies.

Super: When you flee, before encounter cards (and kickers, if any) are turned faceup to be discarded, you may instead privately examine them and add any or all to your hand, discarding the rest. If you keep any of those cards, do not receive rewards for fleeing.


CRUSHER [O:CE] Reduces Ships to One Fantasy Flight (Uses 20 Extra Ships)

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place the 20 ships of that color on this sheet (16 if you are playing with four planets per player) as crusher ships. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power to Crush. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to crush the ships of the other main player and his or her allies. For each affected player, stack his or her involved ships and place one of your crusher ships from this sheet on top. Each crushed stack is controlled by its owner, and moves and counts as a single ship in every way. A crushed stack may not have ships added to or removed from it and may not be re-crushed into another stack.

Whenever one or more of your ships go to the warp, you may use this power to choose one other player and crush all of that player’s ships in the warp that are not already crushed.

During the alliance phase, you may use this power to release one or more crushed stacks in exchange for anything their owners could give you as part of a deal, and/or in exchange for their owners agreeing to receive cards from your hand. The released ships remain in place and the crusher ships return to this sheet.

If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, all crushed ships are released wherever they are.

History: The Crushers are a simple, rather brutal race with straightforward tactics.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may make your opponent's ships in the encounter count as just one ship for encounter totals, compensation, and rewards.

Super: When losing ships to the warp, each ship you lose may crush a different player's uncrushed ships in the warp.


CRYO [O:CI] Saves Cards for Later Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Preserve. As a Main Player or ally, after allies are invited, you may use this power to take one card from your hand and put it in cold storage by placing it facedown on this sheet. Afterwards, draw one card from the deck. Cards on this sheet are frozen and cannot be looked at or drawn by any other player, nor are they considered part of your hand.

If you have at least eight cards on this sheet, discard your hand at any time to take the cards from this sheet as your new hand.

History: Thanks to their unique metabolism, the Cryo are able to enter hibernation for millenia, awakening only when their people have need of them. However, the time is fast approaching when the Cryo may finally awaken all of the great heroes of their past to lead them to Cosmic conquest.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When you draw a new hand, you may first set aside any or all of your non-encounter cards (including this one). Then draw a new hand of eight cards before adding the cards you set aside back into your new hand.

Super: When storing a card, you may swap it for a card in storage instead of drawing a card from the deck. In addition, you may discard your hand to take your cards in storage as a new hand regardless of how many cards you have stored.


CRYSTAL [O:CA] May Multiply Attack Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Refract. As a main player or ally, use this power after both main players reveal attack cards. Any one player on your side can discard one attack card from his or her hand that matches the value of your side’s revealed attack card. If a player does so, multiply your side’s revealed card by the discarded card’s value. For instance, if your side reveals an attack 08, any one player on your side may discard an attack 08 to change the revealed card to an attack 64.

History: Arranged in orderly three-dimensional lattices, Crystals tend to dominate the arrangement of their local environment. They know that, with a few suggestive seeding hints, they can bring the entire Universe into the most efficient energy packing: Crystalline order.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: At the start of any encounter, you may rearrange your ships among your colonies as you wish.

Super: When another player discards a card to activate your power, you may add that card to your hand.


CUDGEL [M:FFG] Opponent Loses More Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Smash. As a main player, when you win an encounter in which you revealed an attack card, use this power to force your opponent to lose extra ships of his or her choice equal to the number of ships you had in the encounter, in addition to any ships he or she would normally lose.

History: The customary greeting among Cudgels is a hearty handshake and a solid blow to the head. This long-standing tradition- often fatal- is frequently misunderstood by weaker races, much to the amusement of the Cudgels. Now, having flattened all of their closest friends, the gregarious Cudgels look skyward, leaving the debris of their broken planet behind. With fists raised in friendship, they seek out new beings to meet, greet, and smash, and will not stop until the Cosmos itself is shattered.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When you gain a colony as the offense, you may send all ships on that planet belonging to other players to the warp. Ships that were allied with you on this encounter are not affected.

Super: Whenever you use your power on a player, you may affect any of that player's allies also. Each player you smash loses the number of ships you had in the encounter.


CYBORG [O:CA] Has 3 Extra Face Up Cards Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: After starting hands are dealt, Cyborg is dealt three extra cards faceup on this sheet. These cards are not part of the Cyborg’s hand and cannot be stolen.

You have the power of Bionics. At any time, you may play one of your faceup non-encounter cards as though it were in your hand. If the card would normally be discarded after being played, discard the played card, draw a new card, and place it faceup on this sheet. If the card would not normally be discarded after playing, return it faceup to this sheet after resolving it.

As a main player or ally, after your side reveals an encounter card, you may use this power to discard your side’s revealed encounter card and replace it with an encounter card that is faceup on this sheet. After the encounter ends, draw a new card and place it faceup on this sheet.

History: A perfect marriage of biology and technology, the Cyborgs have been an odd mix of contrasts ever since they first showed up in the Cosmos. Loyal and caring towards one another, yet coldly logical when need be, the Cyborgs have done the math and know that they will eventually rule the Cosmos for the greater good of all races.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: Play the top card of the discard pile as though it were in your hand. You may only use this flare once per encounter.

Super: At any time, reveal this flare to draw and add a fourth faceup card to your sheet. If this flare leaves your hand, randomly discard one of your faceup cards.


DAREDEVIL [O:CD] Cuts Close to Gain Rewards Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Risk. As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to discard one attack card with a value from 01 to 08 from your hand. Subtract that value from your side’s total.

As a main player or ally, when your side wins an encounter by 4 or less, each player on your side receives rewards equal to the number of ships he or she has in the encounter (in addition to any other benefits received for winning).

History: Preferring an uncertain but exciting existence to predictability, Daredevils thrive on adrenaline, even that of others. Danger elevates the Daredevils’ abilities, and their allies either rise quickly or fall hard. For Daredevils, the closer the shave, the bigger the rush.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this flare. If your side wins by 4 or less, you may use one of your ships in the encounter to establish a colony on any planet in the opposing main player's system. Otherwise, lose three ships of your choice to the warp.

Super: You may cause the players on your side to receive rewards if you win by 6 or less rather than 3 or less.


DEMON [O:CosCo] Possesses Others’ Hands Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Possess. As a main player, before allies are invited, you may use this power to take possession of the hand of any other player except your opponent. Place those cards facedown on this sheet. They are not part of your hand, but you may use cards from here as though they were in your hand. If a card played from this sheet would return to your hand after use, return it to its previous owner instead. At the end of the encounter, return any cards remaining on this sheet to their previous owner.

History: Hailing from deep within the core of a molten planet, a race of Demons was exiled from their original galaxy for unprincipled opportunism. Knowing their mere presence saps others’ will to win, they now seek Cosmic vengeance.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power. Giveaway from CosmicCon.

Wild: As a main player, before allies are invited, you may possess any one other player except your opponent in order to force that player to ally with you when it is his or her turn to do so. That player must send as many ships as possible, up to the number of ships you have in the encounter, but he or she is not required to abandon any colonies to do so.

Super: When using your power, you may draw six cards from the deck to possess instead of another player's hand. If a possessed card would return to your hand after use, it does so. At the end of the encounter, returnany remaining possessed cards to the top of the deck in any order.


DERVISH [O:CS] Rotates Cards Left or Right Fantasy Flight

You have the Power to Whirl. As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to call ”clockwise” or ”counter-clockwise”. Each player involved in the encounter as a main player or ally must pass his or her hand of cards in the chosen direction to the next player involved in the encounter.

History: The constant whirling and high-speed revolution of the Dervishes make them unpredictable and chaotic. In fact, their undulations have been known to make some aliens queasy. Dervishes delight in bold sweeping tactics and surprises in combat, sometimes turning their opponents’ resources against them.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As the defense in your home system, after the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may exchange your hand with the hand of any other player.

Super: If you are passed this flare as a result of using your power, you may play it to immediately establish a colony in the system of the player who passed it to you. Afterwards, discard this flare.


DEUCE [M:CI] Plays 2 Encounter Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Duality. As a main player, after cards are selected but before they are revealed, use this power to place a second encounter card facedown off to one side. This second card is not considered your encounter card and isn't affected by game effects that target your encounter card, such as those of the Oracle or Sorcerer. If both of your encounter cards are revealed to be attacks, the second card's value is added to your side's total. If either is a negotiate, then you have played a negotiate. After the encounter is resolved, discard the negotiate card if you played one, or the higher attack card if you did not, returning the other encounter card to your hand.

When checking to see if you draw a new hand, do so if you have one or fewer encounter card left, rather than none.

History: Twin suns and a double moon have endowed the ambidextrous Deuce with twice the strength of its opponents. Cleverly concealing their real motives behind an amiable mask, the duplicitous Deuce sees Universal control within reach.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, if you have an attack card that is identical to one of the revealed cards, you may discard it, either adding or subtracting its value from the total of the player who played the matching card.

Super: You may discard both your encounter card and your extra card after they are revealed in an encounter.


DICTATOR [M:FFG] Controls Destiny Deck Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Command. When you are not the offense, before destiny is chosen, use this power to take the destiny deck, look through it, and choose any card from it. That destiny card is played as though the offense had drawn it. On your turn, or any time you are zapped, the remaining destiny cards are shuffled, and one is dealt randomly.

History: Grotesque creatures rejected by an old and cultured world, the Dictators pushed and clawed their way to planetary dominion. Relentless in their demands, they turn friend against friend to do their bidding. Recently they have begun to tire of toying with the weak races at home and seek to control the entire Universe.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: When you are not the offense, after destiny is chosen, you may force the offense to discard the destiny card he or she drew and draw again. Use this ability only once per encounter.

Super: You may use your power as the offense.


DIPLOMAT [O:CD] Can Negotiate 3-Way Deals Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Negotiate. When you are not a main player and one or more attack cards are revealed in an encounter, you may use this power to play a negotiate card from your hand and turn the revealed attack cards into regular negotiate cards. Then, you and the two main players have two minutes to attempt to reach a three-way deal. Apply all unique effects found on the three negotiate cards. Unless all three players agree on a deal, the deal fails and each loses the appropriate number of ships. All three players are treated as opponents of each other for game effects that affect deals.

History: A foreboding presence held in awe by other planetary life forms, the Diplomats strike only when their webs are fully spun. Then, for extricating those caught by their own rash acts, the Diplomats negotiate their terms.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: When a deal is being attempted without you, you may play a negotiate card from your hand to remove one of the players from that deal and take his or her place. Restart the time limit. Your card's game effect applies, and you receive the deal's benefits or penalties as appropriate. If you make a deal, it counts as a success for the player you replaced.

Super: As a main player, after alliances are formed, instead of playing encounter cards to determine the winner you may call a vote of all players (defense wins ties). You may buy votes by making deals, which are carried out only if you win. Tally the results and proceed to the resolution phase.


DISEASE [O:CI] Spreads to Other Planets Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Contagion. Whenever any other player’s color or a special destiny card that targets another player is drawn from the destiny deck, you may use this power to infect that player. If you have one or more colonies in the infected players’ home system consisting of at least three ships, choose one of those colonies and take one or more of your ships from it, moving them to any other planet in that system. Your ships coexist with any ships already on that planet unless another game effect prevents them from doing so, in which case they cannot be moved to that planet. One wild destiny card, you may only infect the player chosen to be the defense.

History: Long ago, having decimated all life forms on their native planet, the Disease seemed in danger of extinction from their own success. The advent of interstellar travel, however, gave them a new lease on life. Once the Disease secured a foothold on a new world, it is only a matter of time before they dominate it.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Colony Gain type power.

Wild: At the start of any regroup phase, you may force every other player to choose one card from their hand in secret. Cards are then revealed simultaneously before being discarded. Any player who revealed the same card type (attack, negotiate, etc.) as another player loses 3 ships to the warp. Give this flare to the Disease after use (or discard it, if the Disease isn't playing).

Super: At the start of any regroup phase, you may move one ship from one of your colonies to another of your colonies.


DOPPELGANGER [M:CD] Borrows Cards to Play Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Haunt. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, use this power to discard all encounter cards in your hand (if any) and haunt one other player except your opponent. That player must give you two encounter cards of different types from his or her hand (or one if holding only one type). One of these must be the player’s highest attack card, if he or she has any. When encounter cards are to be selected, if you have fewer than two encounter cards for any reason (including being zapped), you draw from the deck until you have two, discarding all non-encounter cards drawn. After cards are revealed, return any cards received from the haunted player that are still in your hand to that player.

You ignore all consequences of lacking encounter cards, such as drawing a new hand (even for game effects such as the Usurper’s power), ending your turn, or losing the encounter due to the Laser’s power.

History: Haunting its Cosmic colleagues, the Doppelganger often gets the better of them. Each encounter leaves its jittery victim with the feeling that there is more to every passing shadow than meets the eye.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: If you are not a main player, during the alliance phase you may set your hand aside and take the hand of one player who has a colony in your system. If you take the offense's hand, he or she draws a new one. At the end of the encounter, give your hand to that player and take back the hand you set aside.

Super: When using your power, you may also force any player other than your opponent to give you any two non-encounter cards from his or her hand (or one if he or she has only one), which you keep.


EMPATH [O:CC] May Change Attack to Negotiate Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Harmony. as a main player, after either main player reveals a negotiate and the other main player reveals an attack, you may use this power to change the revealed attack card into a negotiate. You and the other main player then attempt to make a deal.

History: Eons of overpopulation forced the highly social Empaths to cooperate in order to survive. On their lush, tropical planet, they learned the value of deference and yielding. Now, they are striving to teach harmony to all other Cosmic life forms.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: Play this flare when you attempt to make a deal. If you successfully make a deal, you and the other player in the deal each receive three defender rewards.

Wild: (Classic edition) Use this flare only as a main player. For the rest of this encounter, you may remove one ship from any colony (your choice) to the warp from each player who does not say "Sir" or "Ma'am" (whichever is appropriate) each time he or she speaks.

Super: As a main player or an ally, if the main player opposing your side reveals a negotiate card, you may exchange it for an attack card from your hand. Conclude the encounter as if he or she revealed that attack card.

Super: (Classic edition) As a main player or an ally, if the main player opposing your side reveals a negotiate card, you may exchange it for an attack card from your hand. Conclude the encounter as if he or she revealed that attack card.


EMPEROR [O:CE] Demands Tribute Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Tribute. Each time another player sends one or more ships into an encounter in your system or gains a colony in your system, you may use this power to demand a tribute. That player must show you one card from his or her hand and must also give you one of his or her ships from a colony. Place the card facedown on this sheet and put the ship on top of the card as an owner ID. The player may refuse if he or she has already given you a tribute during this encounter.

At the end of any encounter, as long as there are three or more total tributes on this sheet from at least two different players, you may look at all of them. Add the tributes you consider worthy to your hand and discard those you consider unworthy. You may return one of the unworthy tributes to its giver, causing that player to lose three ships to the warp. Then the ID ships return to any of their owners’ colonies.

History: The egotistical magistrates of the Emperor race demand respect above all else. Rarely do gifts curry much favor with these narcissists, but an enticing offering made in a feigned spirit of deference can often turn away wrath, if only briefly.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When a main player declines to invite you to ally, you may show him or her a card from your hand to reconsider. If that player invites you, then he or she decides which of you must keep the card. If he or she does not, then you decide which of you must keep the card.

Super: When using your power, you may demand an encounter card, a non-encounter card, a card of one particular type, or a specific card by name. The other player must meet your demand if possible. (If not, then he or she offers any card normally.)


ENGINEER [O:CD] Gains Tech When Losing Fantasy Flight (Tech)

You have the power of Technology. As a main player, when you lose an encounter or fail to deal, you may use this power. Draw two tech cards from the technology deck (even if it is not otherwise in play). You may choose one of the drawn cards to place facedown on this sheet. If you do so, and another tech was already on this sheet, the new one replaces it. The tech(s) you do not keep are discarded.

You may research the tech card on this sheet normally and/or count your ships in the warp toward its research cost. When the tech is completed, move it off this sheet. Ships counted from the warp do not return to colonies with other researching ships, but may be used for the effect of a tech such as Coldsleep Ship or Genesis Bomb.

If this power or a tech card on it is stolen, discarded, etc., any ships that were researching the tech card on this sheet are returned to any of your colonies.

History: Engineers seek to rule the Universe through technological superiority. Valuing intelligence and ingenuity over might, they use scientific breakthroughs to subjugate those who oppose them, no matter how strong.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: You may draw cards from the deck until you draw an artifact card. Non-artifacts drawn are discarded. If you exhaust the deck without drawing an artifact, take any one artifact from the discard pile. Give this flare to the Engineer after use (or discard it, if the Engineer isn't playing). (As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When using your power, instead of drawing two tech cards you may look through the technology deck and take one card your choice. Then, shuffle the technology deck.


ETHIC [M:CI] Gets Compensation for Attack Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Guilt. As a main player, after you lose an encounter in which both main players revealed attack cards, use this power to collect compensation from your opponent as though you had played a negotiate card instead.

Whenever you gain compensation, you may draw some or all of it from the deck instead of your opponent.

History: Subscribing to a moral code of the utmost purity, the Ethics set a universal standard of conduct. Those who would harm the Ethics find themselves curiously repentant. Knowing that they are possessed of the One True Way, the race of Ethics now seek to convert Outsiders through moral persuasion.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When you draw any new card(s) from the deck, use this flare. For the rest of the encounter, each time you draw cards, you may feel guilty and give away some or all of them to other players. You may not, however, give away more than three cards per encounter in this way.

Super: When you collect compensation, name a number from zero to eight and take that many cards as compensation.


EVIL TWIN [O:CE] Avoids Penalties Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Blame. As a main player, after the offense launches ships, you may use this power to declare any other player except your opponent as your good twin by giving him or her a twin token. Until the next time destiny is drawn, loses and penalties suffered by you must instead be suffered by your good twin. Then your twin token is returned to this sheet.

Losses and penalties include cards from you hand, which are supposed to be discarded, cards which you must give to another player (other than your good twin), and ships which are supposed to go to the warp. Also, essence card penalties such as tickets, traumas, and nightmares given to you are passed on to your good twin. When you lose a colony, your good twin loses the number of ships you had on the colony to the warp. your ships which would have been lost return to your other colonies if possible. Otherwise, they remain on the colony.

History: On a world where all are twins, it was not long before the powerful evil twins began dodging responsibility. ETs grow stronger as cast-off GTs habitually shoulder wrongful blame.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: When you must send ships to the warp or lose cards to compensation, as long as you are not currently a good twin to the Evil Twin, you may force the player to your left to suffer the loss of the same number of ships or cards, if possible, instead of you. Give this flare to that player after use.

Super: You may become triplets by giving twin tokens to two other players, even if one is your opponent. Each of your two good twins simultaneously suffers each entire loss or penalty which would have been suffered by you. Both tokens return to your sheet on the next destiny draw.


EXPLORER [O:CD] Finds New Planets Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place four planets of that color on this sheet. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power of Discovery. As the offense, after the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may use this power to take a planet from this sheet, place it in the targeted system, and re-aim the gate at that planet.

As a main player or ally, after both players reveal attack cards, you may use this power to increase your side’s total according to the planets you have discovered. Add 1 for each discovered planet you do not have a colony on, 2 for each discovered planet you coexist on, and 4 for each discovered planet you occupy alone.

History: As the various child-races of the Precursors began to take to the stars, most were drawn to one another in their hunger for knowledge, trade, defense, conflict, and the other manifold needs that drove them forward. The Explorers, however, often bypassed other sentient beings in their haste to catalog new worlds. Even centuries later, this obsession continues; but now they begin to reap the rewards of their diverse discoveries.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Planet type power.

Wild: As the offense, after the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may take the Genesis planet (whether it is in use or not), place it in the targeted system, and re-aim the gate at that planet. You may receive rewards equal to your ships in the encounter if you win or make a deal, or one reward if you do not (in addition to any other benefits of the encounter outcome).

Super: As a main player or ally in an encounter at any planet you discovered, after encounter cards are revealed you may add 4 to your side's total.


EXTORTIONIST [O:CA] Gets Half of All New Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Extort. After starting hands are dealt, whenever any other player acquires cards as compensation or draws new cards for any reason (including defensive rewards, new hands, etc.), you may use this power to randomly acquire or draw half of those cards (rounded down) for yourself instead. A player may prevent you from extorting any cards from him or her by allowing you to send one of his or her ships of your choice to the warp, but he or she must do so before you take any cards.

History: Warped by an unstable environment, the Extortionist has long been crazed by greed. Extortionists prefer wealth that has been unjustly siphoned from honest wage-earners, and now, with their hands ever extended, they hope to amass enough for the final takeover.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: Each time you attempt to make a deal with another player (or players), play this flare. If you fail to make a deal, you do not lose any ships to the warp, while the other player (or players) attempting to make a deal lose twice as many ships to the warp as usual for the failed deal.

Super: A player may not prevent you from extorting cards by sending a ship to the warp if you don't wish to accept the payment.


FIDO [O:FFG] Retrieves Discarded Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Fetch. After encounter cards are discarded at the end of an encounter, you may use this power to retrieve one of the discarded cards and offer it to another player. If the card is refused, you may keep it. If the card is accepted, the other player keeps the card, then you may either retrieve one ship from the warp or draw one card from the deck.

History: Trained for generations by a strict, but unknown alien race, the Fidos were bred for retrieval. Slinking out on their own, they cannot help but fetch the debris of outer space for whomever happens by, knowing they will still be rewarded in some way.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player, before cards are selected, you may force your opponent to take the top card of the discard pile and add it to his hand. You then draw a card from the deck.

Super: When several encounter cards are discarded at the end of an encounter, you may fetch any or all of them and offer them, one by one, to the other players in any order you choose.


FILCH [O:FFG] Takes Opponent's Used Card Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Theft. As a main player, after encounter cards are discarded at the end of an encounter, you may use this power to retrieve your opponent's card from the discard pile and add it to your hand.

History: Within their genteel, sophisticated tribes, the Filches have refined the art of acquisition to a high aesthetic. The most judicious and subtle thefts are memorialized in legend and song. Lately they have taken to eying the depths of space and thoughtfully rippling their tentacles.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: You may discard a negotiate card from your hand to steal any one artifact or flare as it is being played. The stolen card has no effect on its intended victim, going into your hand instead.

Wild: (Classic Edition) You may cheat and take your ships from the warp (to colonies) or cards from the deck or discard pile, even when you are not entitled to them. If caught in the act, you lose one ship to the warp and return the items you were caught filching. You don't have to reveal this card unless you are caught, but once if is revealed the deck and discards are placed next to you for easy access.

Super: You may filch any other player's used encounter card whether you were involved in the encounter or not.

Super: (Classic Edition) You may filch any other player's used encounter card whether you were involved in the encounter or not.


FILTH [M:CC] Drives Away Others’ Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Reek. Any time any of your ships are coexisting on the same planet as any other player’s ships, use this power to force the other player’s ships to return to his or her other colonies.

Your allies in a winning offensive encounter do not land on the defending planet with you. However, they each still gain a colony on any other planet of their choice (each player chooses separately) in the defending system.

When you lose an encounter as the defense on a planet where you have ships, use this power to force all opposing ships to return to their other colonies instead of landing on your planet. Your losing ships go to the warp normally and the planet is then ”fumigated”.

When you agree to trade colonies in a deal, you and that other player must each vacate a planet for the other player to land on.

History: The Filth’s reverence for the past leaves it unable to remove any trace of earlier events - whether yesterday’s glatorp stains or last year’s diseased kinzosh. Having driven all other lifeforms from their home worlds, they are slowly extending out to leave their mark - a ring around the Cosmos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: At any time, you may declare one planet to be "filthy". All ships there are returned to their other colonies (or to the warp if they have no other colonies). Any ships that should land there during this encounter instead return to their other colonies. Give this flare to the Filth after use (or discard it, if Filth isn't playing).

Super: As the offense, when you aim the hyperspace gate at a planet, all other players' ships on that planet (including the defense) must immediately return to their other colonies (or to the warp if they have no other colonies).


FIRE DANCER [O:CE] Blocks Access Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Awe. As a main player, when you reveal an attack card and there is no fire token in the targeted system, you may use this power to place a fire token in that system. At the end of that encounter, all attack cards revealed are placed faceup under the new fire token as fuel instead of being discarded (regardless of other game effects such as the Clone’s power).

When you are not a main player, after destiny is drawn, you may offer to create or expand a fire in the targeted system, and the defense may offer you anything he or she could give you as part of a deal to do so. You may use this power to accept the offer. If the targeted system does not already have a fire token, place one there. Then, you and the defense may each place one attack card from your hand faceup under that system’s new or existing fire token as fuel.

Whenever both sides in an encounter reveal attack cards in a system with a fire token, unless you are the offense or an offensive ally, the face value number showing on each fuel card is added to the defense’s total. At the end of the encounter, a fire which added to the defense’s total is extinguished, and the fire token and fuel cards are discarded. If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, all of your fires are extinguished.

History: The Fire Dancers stir a sense of awe by performing their cultural art form for others who compete to be the next sponsor of their magical performance.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Deal type power.

Wild: After the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may force the offense to aim the gate at a different planet in the targeted system where he or she can have a legal encounter against the defense.

Super: At the start of your turn, you may place one attack card from your hand faceup underneath one of your fire tokens.


FODDER [O:FFG] Plays Additional Low Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Overwhelm. As a main player, you may use this power after both you and your opponent reveal attack cards in an encounter. You may discard any or all attack cards in your hand that are both higher than the attack card you played and lower than the attack card played by your opponent, adding their value to your total.

History: Always regarded as an inferior, scavenging race, the Fodder have amassed a multitude of generally less-effective arms. With the astonishingly large cache of second-rate weapons, the Fodder can afford to overwhelm their adversaries.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: If you were invited to join an encounter and declined, you may join with one ship after cards are revealed.

Super: You may use your power to discard attacks cards that are equal to or lower than the card you played.


FUNGUS [M:CI] Attaches to Other Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Adhere. As a main player or ally, after you win an encounter in which you have at least one ship, use this power to capture any losing ships, stacking them under one or more of your ships in the encounter instead of sending them to the warp (effects that would save ships from the warp, such as Zombie's or Healer's power, cannot prevent this). Captured ships do not have special characteristics, e.g., Macron ships are not worth four. These stacks are controlled by you. Each stack is considered to be one ship for purposes of play. Ships that are part of a stack are only freed when the stack enters the warp. Freed ships are returned to normal and may leave the warp as usual.

As a main player or ally in an encounter, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power. Each stack you have in the encounter adds the number of ships it contains to your side's total instead of 1. Zapping this power does not free any captured ships.

History: The Fungus clings tenaciously to its basic perceptions, and now its neighbors find its teachings (and tendrils) rapidly growing upon them.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When you win as the defense in your home system, you may collect all opposing ships in the encounter and place them in a circle around your home system. They now count toward your total when you are the defense in your home system, but do not go to the warp if you lose as the defense. Captured ships do not have special characteristics. When you discard this card, the captured ships return to their owner's colonies, if any.

Super: Ships adhering to yours in stacks are not released when sent to the warp. When you retrieve a ships from the warp, those ships in its stack remain with it.


FURY [M:CI] Avenges Lost Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Vengeance. Each time one or more of your ships is lost to the warp or removed from the game, use this power to place one token on this sheet for each of your ships lost to the warp or removed from the game.

As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, discard any number of tokens from this sheet to add or subtract 3 from your side's total for each token you discard. Discarded tokens are spent and are not returned to this sheet regardless of the encounter's outcome.

History: Powerful warriors of a matriarchal race, the Furies swear vengeance on anyone foolish enough to defeat one of their champions in battle. Although the quest may take years, the vengeance of the Furies is always served in the end.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, when you lose an encounter, you may destroy one ship (their choice) belonging to each player that opposed you. Destroyed ships are removed from the game. This flare cannot reduce a player to fewer ships than the number of foreign colonies needed to win the game, although it still affects the other players that opposed you.

Super: You don't spend tokens from your sheet to use your power. Instead, you may add or subtract 3 from your side's total for each token on your sheet.


GAMBLER [O:FFG] Bluffs About Card Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Bluff. After your opponent reveals his or her encounter card, you may use this power to keep yours facedown, instead stating what it is (and lying if you like). If your opponent does not challenge your claim, conclude the encounter as if your statement were true, then place your encounter card facedown on the bottom of the deck instead of discarding it. If your opponent challenges your claim, reveal your card. If you lied, you lose as many ships to the warp as you had in the encounter. If you told the truth, your opponent loses as many ships as he or she had in the encounter. These lost ships may not be ships involved in the encounter. Afterwards, conclude the encounter normally using the revealed cards.

History: Arising in an era of geological turmoil, the Gamblers trusted only their own audacity. The faint of heart soon perished, but the most daring rose to even greater effronteries and now launch a contest for Cosmic stakes.

Restriction: Do not use with Sorcerer.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, before cards are revealed, you may call any number as a "spread". If the encounter cards are different from each other by that number or more, add the "spread" to your card.

Super: When stating what your card is, you may "up the ante" by saying how many extra ships (1-20) are at risk. The penalty for lying or calling a non-bluff is now as many extra tokens as you declared.


GENERAL [M:CA] Draws Cards for Allies Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Leadership. As a main player, after alliances are formed, use this power. You may immediately draw one card per player allied with you in this encounter. Afterwards, each of your allies may draw one card.

History: A military society from their earliest days, the Generals have always placed a high value on leadership and charisma. Their history is full of some of the most inspiring spe...eches ever given in all the Cosmos. Whenever a ragtag band of warriors stands up to defy the odds, a General will be there to lead them. Whether fighting the enemy on the beaches or standing with a few lucky men to fight for freedom, a General will smile and say, “I love the smell of Ionic Gas in the morning... It smells like victory.”

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player, after both main players have revealed attack cards and you are losing the encounter, you may rally the troops to draw cards equal to the number of ships your allies have in the encounter. Play any reinforcements you draw and discard the rest of the cards.

Super: If you use your power and both main players reveal attack cards, add 2 to your side's total for each ship your allies have in the encounter.


GENIUS [O:CI] Wins With 20 Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Outwit. As a main player or ally, whenever you gain a foreign colony as the result of winning an encounter, you may use this power to instead draw one card from the deck for each ship you have in the encounter and then send your ships in the encounter back to your other colonies.

At the start of any turn, if you have 20 or more cards in your hand, you immediately win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.

History: Originating on a planet filled with some of the universe’s deadliest predators, the Geniuses had to be smarter and more ruthless than any other creature on their world in order to survive. Now that they’ve left their home planet, the Geniuses have turned their prodigious intelligence towards a bloodless coup of the universe.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Alternate Win type power.

Wild: As a main player, before allies are invited, any number of players you choose (including yourself) must draw a card.

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected, but before they are revealed, guess a number from 0 to 40. If your opponent reveals an attack card with a value within 3 of your guess, shout "Eureka!" and draw four cards.


GHOUL [M:CI] Rewarded for Defeating Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Feast. As a main player, after you win an encounter, use this power. For each opposing ship sent to the warp as a result of the encounter, you receive one defender reward (either retrieve one of your ships from the warp or draw one card from the deck).

History: Haunting the edge of battlefields and devouring the losers to sate their endless hunger, the Ghouls are greatly feared throughout the universe, particularly by those aliens that normally attack en masse. More subtle tactics are required against the Ghouls, lest they emerge from battle stronger than ever.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: After you win an encounter as a main player, you receive one defender reward (a ship retrieved from the warp or a card from the deck) for every player that opposed you in the encounter.

Super: You may use your power as an offensive ally.


GLUTTON [M:CC] Gets Extra Ships and Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Gorge. Whenever you retrieve ships from the warp, use this power to retrieve up to two extra ships of yours from the warp.

Whenever you draw one or more cards from the deck (including when you are dealt your initial hand) or from another player’s hand, use this power to draw two extra cards from the same source.

History: Once described as 50% mouth, 50% stomach, and 50% appetite, the insatiable Gluttons have devoured their way across the Cosmos ever since they (quite literally) ate themselves out of house and home. Those dealing with the Gluttons are advised to count their digits afterwards and to always keep an eyestalk or two on their ”tender, succulent” offspring.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When receiving defender rewards, you receive twice as many defender rewards as normal.

Super: When a cosmic quake occurs, you immediately win the game.


GORGON [M:CA] Petrifies Others’ Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Petrify. When another player attempts to move any ships from one or more of your home planets or that are coexisting on any planet with your ships, use this power. That player must either leave those ships where they are or send them to the warp.

Your own ships are never sent to the warp as a result of your power.

You do not lose this power due to having too few home colonies.

History: The horrifying sight of the Gorgons petrifies any creature that looks upon them. A stranger to a Gorgon world might think this race overly fond of statuary, only to find the statues springing back to life once the Gorgons leave. Because of their powerful effect on others, the Gorgons often find it difficult to get others to cooperate in their quest for Cosmic conquest.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, before allies are invited, choose a planet. Ships on that planet cannot defend or move during this encounter and cannot be sent to the warp during this encounter unless the planet is destroyed.

Super: You may cancel any “Cosmic Zap“ played on you by revealing this card. However, when you do so, this card may be zapped.


GRAVITON [O:CC] Compresses Attacks to 1 Digit Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Gravity. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they’re revealed, you may use this power and say either ”tens” or ”ones”. If yo do so, any attack cards revealed in the encounter only use that digit as their value. For instance, if you said ”tens”, an attack 40 would become an attack 4 and an attack 09 would become an attack 0, but if you said ”ones”, those same cards would become an attack 0 and an attack 9.

History: A cunning, intelligent race from a binary star near a black hole, the Gravitons have mastered the ability to manipulate gravity. Herding and squeezing their enemies into tighter and tighter formations, the Gravitons rely heavily on their allies and reinforcements to finish the fight.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player (if the Graviton is not your opponent), play this flare before encounter cards are selected. Any attack cards revealed in this encounter only use their ones digit as their value (e.g., an attack 21 would be considered an attack 1).

Super: When using your power, you may declare that it affects only your card or your opponent's card. The declaration is still made before cards are revealed, however.


GREENHORN [M:CD] Makes Convenient Mistakes Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Ignorance. At the start of each encounter, if you have card(s) in your hand, use this power to show one of the cards in your hand to one other player. Then, ask him or her a question about that card, aloud. He or she does not need to answer the question.

Whenever you have no attack cards in your hand, you may draw a new hand.

During any regroup phase, you may rearrange your ships among any of your colonies and/or home planets, even the home planets where you have no colony.

You may play your kicker after encounter cards are revealed rather than before they are selected; play reinforcements when you are not involved in the encounter; and play rifts and artifacts that are limited to the regroup or alliance phase as though they were playable As Any Player and during Any Phase.

History: The Greenhorns are relative newcomers to the scene of Cosmic warfare. Feigning inexperience, they use their wiles to trick other races into allowing them to get away with everything in the book. Surely such room is all that is needed for these “newbies“ to glide comfortably into universal dominance.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: If your hand is out of attack cards, negotiate cards, or both, you may discard your hand and draw a new one (potentially continuing your turn if you are the offense).

Super: As the offense, after destiny is drawn, you may choose any player who has a colony in the indicated system to become the defense. Have your encounter against one of his or her colonies in that system.


GRUDGE [M:FFG] Penalizes for Refusing to Ally Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Revenge. As a main player, after alliances are formed, use this power to give a grudge token to each player you invited to ally, but who did not do so. If you win the encounter (or make a deal), each player with a grudge token discards it and loses one ship of his choice to the warp. If you lose the encounter (or fail to make a deal), each player with a grudge token discards it and loses four ships of his choice to the warp. Lost ships cannot include ships used to ally with the other side.

History: Suffering from a species history of almost uninterrupted betrayal and disappointment, the originally kind Grudges gradually grew cynical. Expecting no good will from others, they began to brood and resolved to wreak vengeance on all who would turn aside their outstretched suction disc of friendship..

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: If you are a main player and your opponent wins the encounter, you may force his or her allies to receive nothing for the win, instead returning their ships to their colonies.

Super: You may force each player who discards a grudge token to lose 4 ships to the warp, regardless of whether or not you won the encounter.


GRUMPUS [M:CS] Kicks Others Off Vacated Planets Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Grump. Whenever one of your colonies is removed from any planet, use this power. At the end of the current phase, every other player who has a colony on that planet must send one of his or her ships from that planet to the warp.

You do not lose your power because of having too few home colonies.

History: The Grumpus is indeed a stodgy curmudgeon. Other species prefer not to interact with he Grumpi, lest they be drawn into a long-winded conversation about how the Universe was better back in their millennium. And be careful when you treat when visiting the Grumpus home world; they cannot stand it when there are aliens on their lawn.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: After the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may choose one player. That player must send one of his ships from the targeted system to the warp.

Super: When you use your power, you may force each other player who has a colony on the planet you vacate to lose one ship from each colony he or she has in that entire system, not just the planet your ships were removed from.


GUERRILLA [M:CI] Winners Lose All But 1 Ship Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Attrition. As a main player, after you lose an encounter, use this power to weaken your opponent and each of his or her allies. Each player you weaken loses all but one of his or her ships in the encounter to the warp.

History: Used to fighting against superior forces, the Guerrillas have leaned to strike from the shadows, wearing down their opponents' numbers even when they lose a battle. Seeing themselves as heroes underdogs, the Guerrillas have set out to liberate the Cosmos form those who would oppress it, whether the cosmos wants to be liberated or not.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: After you lose an encounter as the defense, you may blow your own planet up rather than allow it to be captured. The planet is removed from the game along with all of the attacking ships (your side's ships are sent to the warp as normal). A player cannot be reduced to fewer ships than the number of foreign colonies needed to win the game. Any ships removed from the game that would reduce a player below this number are sent to the warp as normal.

Super: Each player you weaken that has three or fewer ships in the encounter loses all of his or her ships in the encounter to the warp.


HACKER [O:FFG] Chooses Compensation Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Hack. As a main player, when collecting compensation, you may use this power to choose the player that you are collecting compensation from, whether that player was your opponent or not. You then look through that player�s hand and choose the cards you want for compensation.

In addition, when your opponent collects compensation from you, you may use this power to select the cards he or she gets.

History: Masters of technology, the Hackers have embedded various devices into their bodies in an attempt to improve their skills at computer fraud. Although geniuses when it comes to code breaking and decrypting data, Hackers aren�t much good in a more conventional battle. However, more than one would-be conqueror has learned to their sorrow that the Hackers have extremely nasty ways of getting their revenge.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: You may prevent your opponent from collecting compensation from you.

Super: When you collect compensation from the player of your choice, you may also give that player up to the same number of cards or your choice from your hand.


HATE [M:FFG] Opponents Lose Cards or Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Rage. At the start of your turn, use this power to force every player to either discard a card or lose ships. First, choose and discard a card from your hand. Every other player must then choose to either discard a card of the same type (attack, negotiate, artifact, etc.) or lose three ships of your choice to the warp. If you discard an attack card, your opponents must discard an attack card of equal or higher value. If an opponent has no cards of the discarded type, he or she must lose ships instead. If, after using this power, you do not have any encounter cards in your hand, draw a new hand.

History: A short, physically unimposing race, the Hate evolved in a crowded part of the Cosmos and were pushed aside by other, more powerful, races. Forced to subsist on food scraps and the leavings of the other species, the Hate swore that one day they would be the ultimate power on the Cosmic scene.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may force your opponent to discard one card at random from his or her hand. If he or she has no encounter cards left after doing so, you win the encounter.

Super: Instead of discarding a card to use your power, you may show the card to the other players and then return it to your hand.


HEALER [O:FFG] Can Save Others' Ships from Warp Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Heal. When another player loses ships to the warp or has ships removed from the game, you may use this power to return to that player all the ships he or she just lost and earn one card from the deck. Being healed does not prevent a player from receiving compensation. A healed player replaces his or her ships on any of his or her colonies. During an encounter you may heal several players, drawing one card for each.

History: Rapid geological activity forced extreme biological diversification on the Healer home world. Possessing vast knowledge of herbal and mutant lore, Healers are now prized by other beings for their life sustaining skills. Amidst loud rejoicing over renewed health, who could deny them their modest fee?

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: You may cause any "Cosmic Zap" played on you to be discarded without effect.

Super: You may raise your fee for healing other players to one card from the deck per ship you heal.


HORDE [M:CA] Gains Tokens That Act as Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Spawn. Each time you draw a card or retrieve a ship from the warp, use this power. Add a horde token to one of your colonies. Treat horde tokens as ships under your control, but discard them if sent to the warp, removed from the game, or captured by another player. If you lose this power, horde tokens remain until discarded.

Your power cannot be stolen or copied through any means.

History: A little-known race from a Cosmic backwater, the Horde have only one real skill – spawning. Leave a Horde alone in a room for a minute, and you’ll return to two Hordes avidly chatting with each other. Leave them in your house for an afternoon, and you’ll return home to find that they’ve taken over your city – at which point, if you’re lucky, you’ll have just enough time to flee the planet before they claim it in the name of the Horde race.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: During your regroup phase, if there is an unused player color, you may add a ship of that color to one of your colonies instead of retrieving a ship from the warp. If that ship is ever alone on a planet or goes to the warp, it is removed from the game.

Super: When you use your power, you receive twice as many horde tokens as usual.


HOST [O:CD] Plays and Adds Unused Flares Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Channel. At the start of any player’s turn, you may remove any or all flares on this sheet from the game, and/or draw cards from the unused flare deck to place facedown on this sheet until you have three here, in either order.

At any time, you may use this power to play a wild flare from this sheet as though it were in your hand. If the flare would return to your hand after use, discard it to the regular discard pile. If you are zapped, place the flare back on this sheet. Cards played from this sheet do not count toward the normal limit of one flare per encounter.

History: The Hosts’ ability to channel the spiritual essence of past and future aliens allows them to manifest some of the defining characteristics of their alien occupants. After being channeled, some aliens decide the experience was so pleasant they return to active public life, popping up here and there to affect galactic events.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: You may draw three cards from the unused flare deck and add them to your hand. Give this flare to the Host after use (or discard it, if the Host isn't playing).

Super: When drawing flares for your sheet at the start of a turn, you may draw two additional cards. Choose from all drawn cards, placing some on your sheet until you have three. The cards that are not chosen are removed from the game.


HUMAN [M:FFG] Mostly Harmless Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Humanity. As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power to add 4 to your side's total. If this power is zapped, however, your side automatically wins the encounter.

History: Warlike and fairly dim by Cosmic standards, humans are not seen as much of a threat. However, exposing a human to Cosmic energy can unlock strange and awesome powers. General consensus among the other races is that this is a course of action that is to be avoided.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, if your opponent is not the Human, you may use this flare after encounter cards are revealed to change your encounter card into an attack 42. Afterwards, give this flare to the Human. If the Human is not playing, discard this flare to use it.

Super: You may cause your power to add 8 to your side's total instead of 4. Also, you may discard this flare to zap your power.


HUNGER [M:CE] Feeds on Others’ Hands Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Extra Helpings. At the start of your turn, use this power to take one card at random from each other player’s hand.

At the start of each other player’s turn, use this power to take one card at random from that player’s hand.

History: Evolving as perpetually ravenous creatures on a planet with limited water, flora, and fauna, the Hunger grew adept at maximizing opportunities to seize and exploit all possible sources of sustenance. Now they are sending their ships out into the Cosmos on foraging missions and hope to gather nourishment from gullible neighbors and fertile, poorly protected planets.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Card Gain type power.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may reveal the top card of the cosmic deck or the reward deck. Either discard that card and keep this flare, or keep that card and give this flare to the Hunger (or discard it, if the Hunger isn't playing).

Super: When using your power at the start of another player's turn, you may take up to two cards from that player. Each card taken may be kept, discarded, returned, or given to any other player.


HYPOCHONDRIAC [O:CE] Shares Anxiety Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: For each other player in the game, place two anxiety tokens on this sheet (e.g., eight tokens in a five-player game).

You have the power of Anxiety. As a main player or ally, during the planning phase, you may use this power to name one other main player or ally who makes you anxious (for any reason). Explain why and seek a remedy. Regardless of who’s making you anxious, any player or players may, individually or together, offer you a remedy of anything they could give you as part of a deal and/or abandoning any of their colonies (returning the ships to other colonies). You have one minute to either accept one remedy or give the named player one of your anxiety tokens.

At the end of any encounter that has a winner and a loser, the winner may give up to half of his or her anxiety tokens (rounded up) to the loser, but may give only one if the loser is you. Anxiety tokens may also be traded in deals.

The player or players who have the most anxiety tokens (even you) cannot land their ships on a planet if establishing that colony would win them the game. Those ships return to other colonies.

History: Parlaying self-pity and hypersensitivity to a new level, the Hypochondriacs are tiptoeing into the realms of deep space to cough in the faces of the Cosmic masses.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: At any time, you may place this card in front of your system and declare yourself "not at home." While this card is in front of your system, no other player may aim the hyperspace gate at one of your home planets. Destiny is drawn again as necessary. At the start of your next turn, give this flare to the Hypochondriac (or discard it, if the Hypochondriac isn't playing).

Super: You may be anxious twice per encounter, but not about the same person.


INDUSTRIALIST [M:CC] Adds Losing Attack Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Build. As a main player, after you lose an encounter in which you have revealed an attack card, your opponent must either allow you to win the encounter instead of losing, or else allow you to pace your attack card faceup on this sheet, adding it to your ”stack”. Your stack is not part of your hand and cannot be drawn from by other players or affected by other powers.

As a main player, after you reveal an attack card, use this power to either add or subtract the total of all the faceup attack cards in your stack from your side’s total. For instance, if you have an attack 08 and an attack 12 on this sheet, you would add or subtract 20 from your side’s total.

History: The Industrialists have shown themselves to be masters at learning from their own mistakes. From the ashes of each defeat arises a more powerful assault the next time. Even though the Industrialists don’t seem to learn as much from their successes, the strength they’ve gained from their defeats is sufficient to carve out a large piece of the Cosmos for themselves.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, after you reveal an attack card, draw a card at random from your opponent's hand. If it's an attack card, add it to your side's total, then discard it. Otherwise, return it to your opponent's hand.

Super: When adding a card to your stack, you may add either main player's revealed encounter card (as long as it's an attack) to your stack.


INVADER [O:CC] Launches Sneak Attacks Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Shuffle the three ”Invasion!” destiny cards into the destiny deck. These destiny cards allow you to have an extra encounter when drawn during another player’s turn. After you have an extra encounter due to an ”Invasion!” destiny card, the player who drew it during his or her turn receives another encounter.

You have the power of Invasion. As a main player, after an ”Invasion!” destiny card or destiny card of your player color is drawn, you may use this power to discard your entire hand and draw a new hand of eight cards before having your extra encounter. Only use this power once per encounter.

History: Originating in a place beyond space and time, the Invaders have slowly eroded away at the barriers between There and Here, planning their invasion of our universe all the while. Now, at last, their time is at hand, and they have begun tearing their way through the veils that remain, popping up in an instant to wreak havoc on everything they find in this new, unnatural place.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: At any time, discard your hand and draw a new hand of eight cards. Afterwards, give this card to the Invader, or discard it if the Invader isn't playing.

Super: During an Invasion! encounter, you may send ships from the warp into the encounter (normal max applies). If the ships survive the encounter, they do not return to the warp.


JOKER [M:CD] Makes Attack Cards Wild Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Take the nine joker tokens (six different attacks, a regular negotiate, a morph, and a retreat) and place them faceup on this sheet.

You have the power of Wild Cards. Attack 08 cards are initially “wild“. At the start of your turn, you may name any other attack card to become the new wild card instead.

After encounter cards are revealed, for each one that matches the current wild card, use this power. Place one faceup joker token from this sheet on the wild card to change it into the card indicated by the token. After the outcome is determined, return the used joker token(s) to this sheet, facedown. When you remove the last faceup joker token from this sheet, immediately turn the used ones here faceup for reuse.

History: The Fun-loving Jokers enjoy humiliating the conceited, mocking the powers that be, and causing general chaos. They seek not to rule, but to satirize the Universe.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, you may change one revealed negotiate card into an attack 08.

Super: At any time, you may name any encounter card to become the new wild card, such as attack 06, the regular negotiate card, or Negotiate (Epic Oratory). When you lose this flare, attack 08 immediately becomes the wild card again.


JUDGE [O:CD] Assigns Extra Win/Lose Terms Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Fiat. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to declare any extra gains that either the winner or the loser (but not both) will get if an attack card is revealed. These extra gains are limited by the rules on deals: one colony where the opponent has a colony and/or card(s) from the opponent. For example, you may declare “the winner will also get all of the loser’s cards, and an extra colony on any planet where the loser has a colony.“ The fiat is in addition to the normal results, and happens at the end of the encounter.

History: Long ago abandoning physical bodies, the Judges periodically coalesce amidst perfect protocol to deliberate upon their destiny. The Ring of Judges, when reflecting, creates a field of power in which each creature may ponder its fate.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, if the two encounter totals differ by less than 5, you may call it a draw. Allies return their ships to any of their colonies and you and your opponent attempt to make a deal as if negotiate cards had been revealed.

Super: Your fiat may include gains for both the winner and the loser.


KAMIKAZE [O:FFG] Sacrifices Ships for Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Sacrifice. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to send up to four of your ships from any of your colonies to the warp. For every ship you sent to the warp, draw two cards from the deck. If this power is zapped, you do not lose the sacrificed ships to the warp.

History: Always a close-knit society, the Kamikaze have taken the virtue of self-sacrifice and raised it to an artform. In battle, they are greatly feared for their ability to die explosively at will. But the Kamikaze know that when their race rises to Cosmic superiority, those who gave their lives along the way will be remembered forever.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may send up to four of your ships that are not in the encounter to the warp to add 3 to your side’s total for each ship sacrificed.

Super: You may retrieve three ships from the warp during each of your regroup phases instead of one.


KLUTZ [M:CE] Fumbles Cards and Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Clumsiness. Whenever you draw more than one card from the deck (including when you are dealt your initial hand), use this power to drop one or two of the drawn cards. The dropped cards are discarded without replacements.

Whenever you place more than one of your ships on the same planet, use this power to examine any one other ship on a planet in the same system next to the planet you are placing ships on. Then drop it. The dropped ship goes to the warp.

History: The Klutzes are described by their Cosmic neighbors as being all thumbs, and this is meant quite literally. Possessing no fingers and only marginally opposable thumblets, it is a wonder they can even tie their own podpads. Klutz reproduction is thus hypothesized to occur via a phenomenon that has come to be called ”improbably fortunate collisions.”

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: For the rest of this encounter, each time another player should draw more than one card from the deck, you may deal out that player's cards and deal one card faceup to that player, deal one card to the wrong opponent, or do both (with the same card or two different ones).

Super: As a losing main player or ally, you may pick up your losing ships and, as the last act of the resolution, drop them as a group from a height of one foot above the targeted planet. All players' ships that end up touching or overlapping any planets stay on those planets; others go to the warp.


LASER [M:CD] Blinds Opponent to Part of Hand Fantasy Flight

You have the Power to Blind. As a main player, before allies are invited, use this power. If your opponent will need to draw a new hand to obtain encounter cards, he or she does so now. Then, you select at random a number of cards in his or her hand (without looking at them) up to the number of ships he or she has in the encounter. Your opponent must set the selected cards aside for the rest of the encounter.

If your opponent has no encounter cards after being blinded, he or she loses the encounter. Otherwise, the encounter proceeds normally. At the end of the encounter, your opponent retrieves the cards that were set aside.

History: Descended from an ancient sun-worshipping cult, the modern Lasers have learned to Focus stellar power accurately enough to bedazzle any opposition. They have now embarked on a plan to spread confusion and fear among their enemies before stepping in to build a coherent Cosmos in their own image.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, during the alliance phase, you may discard up to three cards from your hand. Select up to the same number of cards at random from any one player's hand (even your own). That player must set aside the chosen cards and cannot use them until the end of the encounter.

Super: You may use your power as an ally after alliances are formed, targeting either one of the main players.


LEVIATHAN [O:CI] May Attack With Planet Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Worldships. As the offense, after the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may use this power to choose one of your home planets that has no opposing ships on it and send it through the gate to attack as a worldship. Take the worldship (with all of your ships that were on it) and place it on the hyperspace gate. After encounter cards are revealed add 20 to your side’s total, plus 1 for each ship you have on your worldship. If you lose the encounter, return the worldship to your home system, sending all ships on it to the warp. If you win the encounter, return the wordships to your home system with your ships still on it, although you may leave one to four ships behind on the planet you successfully attacked.

History: Immense and powerful creatures, the Leviathans consumed every resource on their own worlds until they themselves became like planets. The Leviathan fleets, now stationed within the fleshy folds of their masters, scout out new worlds for the Leviathans to envelop. The sight of a world-sized entity gating in through hyperspace often causes madness and hysteria on the targeted planet, but it doesn’t last long.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Planet type power.

Wild: As the offense, after destiny is drawn, you may trade one home planet with the defense. Your planet moves to the defense's home system and vice versa. The encounter immediately ends successfully. Afterwards, give this flare to the Leviathan (or discard it, if Leviathan is not playing).

Super: Your worldships may contain any ships except the defense's ships. Other player's ships on your worldship count towards your side's total and those players are automatically allied with you for this encounter, but may not launch additional ships and do not receive a colony if your side wins.


LIGHTNING [M:CA] Gains and Takes Away Encounters Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Speed. Each time any other player takes a second encounter during his or her turn, use this power to add a token to this sheet.

After the end of any encounter (even your own), you may discard three tokens from this sheet to immediately have one encounter. Afterwards, play resumes from where it left off.

Alternately, at the start of a player’s second encounter, you may discard two tokens from this sheet to immediately end the encounter.

History: The Lightning live out their lives in a matter of hours. They move so fast that the rest of the universe seems to act in slow motion to them. More than one alien race has sneered at the short lifespan of the Lightning, only to find themselves taken over in a flash.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: Each time any other player takes a second encounter during his or her turn, you may draw three cards.

Super: Each time you use your power, add two tokens to your sheet instead of one.


LIZARD [M:CD] Metamorphoses After Winning Fantasy Flight (Uses 20 Extra Ships)

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place all the ships of that color on this sheet. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power to Transmogrify. As a main player, after you win an encounter using any of your normal ships, use this power to morph those winning normal ships. Remove them from the game and replace them with an equal number from this sheet. Your morphed ships count as ships of your color, except that each one adds an extra +2 to your side’s total when involved in an encounter as a main player or ally (even after this power is zapped or lost).

When you have no normal ships remaining in the game, you win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.

This power cannot be stolen, copied, or separated from your player color through any means.

History: The Lizards’ lifecycle comprises metamorphic stages not unlike those of other sentient reptilians. Due to their world’s proximity to a neutron star, however, they have developed an additional hyper-metamorphism that is triggered only by extreme adrenal overload. Finding battle victories to be effective activation events, the Lizards now seek physical perfection through conquest.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Alternate Win type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after your side reveals an attack card, you may either double the values of all reinforcements you play after this flare or add one to the multiplier of a kicker you revealed as a main player.

Super: When using your power, you may also morph two of your normal ships that are not involved in the encounter.


LOCUST [M:CI] Eats Planets When Alone Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Devour. At the start of any regroup phase, if you have a foreign colony on a planet by yourself (i.e., there are no other ships on the planet with you), use this power to devour the planet, removing it from the game and placing it on this sheet. Your ships on that planet are returned to your other colonies.

Each planet you have devoured counts as one foreign colony towards victory for you, even if this power is later lost or stolen. If this power is stolen, devoured planets do not transfer with it.

History: The Locusts recently swarmed out of their home system in a vast cloud of ships, searching for uninhabited planets that they could break down and consume to meet the ever-growing energy needs of their people. Needless to say, the other aliens are keeping a nervous eye on these destructive gluttons.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Planet type power.

Wild: At the start of any regroup phase, you may send 4 of your ships to the warp to destroy a planet that is not in the Locust's home system, removing it from the game. Any ships on that planet are sent to the warp. Afterwards, give this flare to the Locust. If Locust is not in the game, discard it instead.

Super: Once per encounter, you may devour one foreign planet on which you have more total ships than all other players combined. If you do so, all other players' ships on that planet are sent to the warp.


LOSER [O:FFG] Winner Loses and Loser Wins Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Upset. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to declare an upset. Once an upset has been declared, both main players must play attack cards, if possible. Then, after cards are revealed, the winning side loses and the losing side wins. This occurs after all other game effects are resolved (such as the Human�s power being zapped).

History: The enigmatic Losers have proven to be quite cunning in battle. Strengths become weaknesses and weaknesses strengths as the glassy-eyed Loser shows its opponents that nice guys finish first.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may declare that both sides lose, sending all involved ships to the warp.

Super: You may wait until after cards are selected but before they are revealed before declaring an upset. When you do so, you and your opponent are not required to play attack cards if possible.


LOVE [M:CD] Makes the Cosmos Go ’Round Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Joy. At the start of your turn, use this power. Choose and discard one card from your hand. Every other player, in clockwise order, may then choose and discard one card from his or her hand. If he or she discards the same type as you (attack, negotiate, artifact, etc.), that player may release all of his or her ships from the warp back to colonies.

If all players discard the same type of card as you, you collect all of the discarded cards (including yours). If one or more other players do not discard a card matching the type you discarded, you may release all of your ships from the warp and use them to establish a foreign colony in the system of one of those players.

History: A maternalistic and physically imposing race, the Love used to be enveloped in rage and self-loathing. In their darkest hour, the Love began to see that simple acts of joy could become contagious; all that was needed was for one race to take the first step toward a happier existence.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Colony Gain type power.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may ask your opponent to discard one card at random from his or her hand. If he or she does, you may take the card; if he or she does not, you receive one reward.

Super: Instead of discarding a card to use your power, you may show the card to the other players and then return it to your hand.


LUNATIC [O:CC] Allies Against Self Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Insanity. As a main player, after allies are invited, you may use this power to ally against yourself without being invited. Your ships on the losing side are sent to the warp as normal, while your ships on the winning side receive whatever they would normally receive for winning, such as defender rewards or a colony on the defending planet.

History: Not known for their rational behavior, the Lunatics have existed this far by being on the winning side of every battle in some form or another.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: For each defender reward you receive, you may both draw a card from the deck and retrieve a ship from the warp. You do not have to choose one or the other.

Super: When not a main player, you may ally with both sides of any encounter, if invited by both main players.


MACHINE [O:FFG] Can Continue Turn Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Continuity. Your turn is not limited to two encounters. After completing an encounter (whether successful or not), you may use this power to have another encounter as long as you have at least one encounter card left in your hand.

History: A race long lost to antiquity had the foresight to construct a mammoth Machine in the core of their planet. Pouring all their knowledge and ambition into its memory banks, they programmed it with this mandate: �Top priority...expand control, never cease...eliminate opposition, never cease...achieve mastery, never cease...�

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As the offense, you always have the option to have a second encounter, even if you lost your first encounter or are out of encounter cards. If you have no encounter cards at the start of your second encounter, draw a new hand.

Super: During each of your regroup phases, you may draw the top card from the deck instead of retrieving a ship from the warp.


MACRON [M:FFG] Each Ship is Worth 4 Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Mass. When you are a main player or ally, use this power after allies are invited. If you are the offense or an ally, you may only send one ship into the encounter. Each of your ships adds 4 to your side�s total in the encounter instead of 1. When collecting compensation or rewards, each of your ships is worth two ships.

History: Beginning life on a gargantuan planet, the Macrons accustomed themselves to tremendous atmospheric and gravitational forces. Power comes so naturally to them that they scoff at the fragile intelligences they crush on their way to universal dominance.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after your reveal an attack card in an encounter, you may add 1 to your side's total for each ship you have in the encounter.

Super: As the offense or an ally, you may launch up to four ships in the hyperspace gate.


MAGICIAN [M:CI] Steals Cards, Confounds Opponent Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Prestidigitation. As a main player, use this power before encounter cards are selected to force your opponent to play two encounter cards facedown. Choose one of the two cards at random and add it to your hand. Then, play an encounter card from your hand normally (even the card you just took). Your opponent must play the card you didn't choose as his or her encounter card. The rest of the encounter is resolved as usual.

If your opponent only has one encounter card left (and proves it by showing you his hand except for the encounter card), your power has no effect.

History: Lacking any natural weapons with which to defend themselves, the Magicians had to use their keen intellect to survive. Confusing and confounding their enemies became second nature to the wily Magicians. Indeed, many a would-be Cosmic conqueror has found occasion to curse the day that the Magicians swindled a visiting alien out of his spaceship and soared out into the cosmos.

Restriction: Do not use with Oracle.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When you are a main player, before selecting cards, you may force your opponent to play three encounter card facedown. Shuffle these cards around on the table. Your opponent chooses one of the facedown cards at random, which he or she then plays, returning the other two to his or her hand. If your opponent has fewer than three encounter cards, he or she discards his or her hand and draws a new one.

Super: When using your power, turn one of your opponent's two cards faceup before choosing. Choose either the faceup or facedown card and take it. Your opponent plays the card you did not choose, as normal.


MASOCHIST [M:FFG] Tries to Lose Own Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Hurt Yourself. At the start of any player’s regroup phase, before the offense retrieves a ship from the warp, use this power to win the game if you have lost all of your ships. Lost ships include those in the warp, those removed from the game, and those captured by other players.

You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies, and you may still win the game via the normal manner.

History: The Masochists suffer from a neurological disorder where they derive pleasure from self-flagellation. However, some are beginning to wonder if it’s really a religious ritual to bring forth their dominance in the universe.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Alternate Win type power.

Wild: During any regroup phase, you may choose a player other than the offense. That player retrieves a ship from the warp instead of the offense. You may not use this flare if the offense’s ships are all in the warp or removed from the game.

Super: During each of your regroup phases, you may choose one of your ships in the warp and remove it from the game instead of retrieving it as usual.


MAVEN [O:CE] Is Always Right Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Be Right. If you are not a main player or ally, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to take all facedown cards played during the planning phase and stack them on this sheet without looking at them. Then proceed to the reveal phase and discard an attack or negotiate card from your hand to declare the outcome of the encounter. Discard an even-numbered attack card to declare that the offense wins. Discard an odd-numbered attack card to declare that the defense wins. Discard a negotiate card to declare that the main players will try to make a deal. You may not use this power if you do not have an attack or negotiate card to discard.

Cards you stack on this sheet are kept facedown until the appropriate deck is reshuffled, at which point they are reshuffled with that deck.

History: Tired of offering corrections to lesser species, the Mavens have decided to skip the middle-alien, as it were, and hasten to the endgame, declaring correct outcomes in a matter of seconds.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: When you are not involved in an encounter, after encounter cards are revealed, you may "correct" any encounter's outcome by adding 10 to either side's total. Give this flare to the Maven after use (or discard it, if the Maven isn't playing).

Super: When using your power, instead of placing cards on your alien sheet, you may add them all to your hand.


MERCENARY [M:CI] Always Rewarded for Winning Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Bounty Hunting. As a main player or offensive ally, after your side wins an encounter, use this power to gain defender reward as though you were a defensive ally (either retrieve one of your ships from the warp or draw one card from the deck for each ship you had in the encounter). This is in addition to any other benefits you receive normally for winning the encounter.

History: Originally created by another race to serve as police, the robotic Mercenaries were designed to be exert trackers and warriors. However, a terrible plague wiped out their master and, left along for eons, the Mercenaries gradually became self aware. Vowing that they would never be used as slaves again, the Mercenaries made their way out into the Cosmos, always being careful to exact a price for their services.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When you win an encounter as the defense, you may receive defender rewards as though you were a defensive ally.

Super: When drawing cards for rewards, you may discard any or all of them after looking at the cards.


MERCHANT [O:CI] Plays Cards as Extra Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Hire. As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are selected, but before they are revealed, if you have at least one ship in the encounter, you may use this power to play one or more cards facedown from your hand as hired ships. These cards are treated as extra ships you have in the encounter and may be played in addition to your normal maximum of 4 ships as the offense or an ally. Hired ships cannot be played for their card effect and are not considered part of your hand. Other players may not look at or draw hired ships. Any hired ship that goes to the warp or is removed from the game is discarded. Otherwise, hired ships become normal cards again and return to your hand at the end of the encounter.

History: Hailing from a world incredibly rich in natural resources, the Merchants achieved star travel early in their history thanks to a crew of intergalactic mercenaries who crash-landed on their planet. Since then, the Merchants have frequently used their wealth and natural charisma to hire other raced to do their fighting for them.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, add 1 to your side's total for each card in your hand, plus this card.

Super: You may replace any or all hired ships that survive the encounter with any ships you have in the warp on a 1-for-1 basis. Discard the cards representing the replaced hired ships when you do this.


MESMER [O:CD] Can Change Own Artifacts Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Mass Hypnosis. You may use this power to play any artifact card from your hand as though it were any artifact card you name. If you are zapped you return the card to your hand, but may then play it normally, for its original printed effect, if appropriate.

History: Raised in a society where grace and physical charm are equated with success, the unsightly Mesmers have as a defense developed the power to entrance all who might gaze upon them. Now, accomplished performers, the Mesmers can bedazzle a crowd into believing anything. Only long after the glow has faded do the most astute begin to wonder how much was real, and how much imagined.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player, after you reveal an attack card with a value lower than 10, you may change it into a negotiate card.

Super: You may use your power to play any non-encounter card from your hand as though it were any artifact card.


MIMIC [M:CC] Copies Opponent’s Hand Size Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Imitate. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, use this power. If your opponent has more cards in hand than you, draw cards from the deck until you have just as many cards in your hand. If your opponent has fewer cards in hand than you, discard cards of your choice until you have just as few cards in your hand.

History: Evolving from a small insectoid creature that had an incredible gift for imitating the appearance of the other beings on their homeworld, the Mimics have come to be known as some of the greatest copycats in the Cosmos. Watching a Mimic change form is an eye-watering process, a bit like watching a giant, invisible sculptor at work. The Mimics hope that their ability to blend in throughout the Cosmos will allow them to ascend to Cosmic dominance, but only time will tell.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: Duplicate the effects of a wild flare or artifact card that another player just played. The effects take place as though you had played the card yourself. Then, give this card to the Mimic, or discard it if the Mimic is not playing.

Super: When using your power, you may draw up to or discard down to eight cards instead of your opponent's actual hand size.


MIND [O:FFG] Sees Other Players' Hands Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Knowledge. Before allies are invited in an encounter, you may use this power to look at the entire hand of one of the main players. If you are a main player, you may look at your opponent's hand. You may not tell any other players what cards you see in a player's hand using this power.

History: Springing forth on a triple star system subject to constant energy fluxes, the Mind thrives on shifting wave pulses, ultraviolet rays, and gamma-release explosions. Extreme sensitivity to potentialities has enabled it to view with wisdom (and some skepticism) the threats of its Cosmic competitors.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: Whenever another player draws a card from the deck, you may draw it instead, look at it, and then give it to him or her. You may not share this information with the other players.

Super: When you aren't a main player, using your power allows you to look at the hands of both main players.


MIRAGE [M:CD] Changes Number of Ships Involved Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Delusion. As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power to choose any one of your colonies and any one of your opponent’s colonies. Encounter totals are calculated as though the main players’ ships on the chosen colonies were involved instead of their actual ships in the encounter. Allies’ ships count toward the totals normally.

History: Beings of inconstant mass, the Mirage willfully change their form to mislead adversaries about their actual numerical strength. The field of distortion surrounding the Mirage is so powerful, those venturing within it are unable to precisely determine their own appearance. Great fleets have been deluded into thinking they were suddenly outnumbered, and those captains able to survive become forever wary of the misshapen ripples of space seen in the distance.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may play one negotiate card from your hand as though it were a reinforcement +3.

Super: When using your power, you may also choose one colony of any one ally to count toward that side's encounter total instead of his or her actual ships in the encounter.


MIRROR [O:FFG] Swaps Digits On Attack Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Reversal. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to call for a reversal. This changes the value of any attack cards that are revealed in this encounter by reversing their digits. For example, this would make an attack 15 into a 51, a 20 into an 02, and an 08 into an 80. Resolve the encounter using these reversed values.

History: Springing from a world with such a high surface silver content that everything reflected off everything else, the Mirrors adapted to the difficulty of separating mirror images from reality. They also developed an inner symmetry that confounds their opponents across the Cosmos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may change your encounter card into a duplicate of your opponent�s encounter card.

Super: When declaring a reverse, you may declare that the reverse will affect only your card or your opponent's card. This declaration is still made before cards are revealed, however.


MISER [B:FFG] Gets Second Hand Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: You are dealt two separate eight-card hands. Look at them and choose one to be your "hoard". Place it facedown on this sheet.

You have the power to Hoard. Whenever you wish to play a card, you may use this power to play a card from your hoard instead of your normal hand. You may not add cards you gain to your hoard, and other players may not look at or draw cards from your hoard. If there are no encounter cards left in your hoard, you may reveal it, then discard it and get a new eight-card hoard.

History: Barely eking out a living on their shriveled moon, the Misers for generations secreted away their small annual surplus. But as the hoard grew, so did their greed, until now they prepare to risk their holdings for greater Cosmic booty.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When you draw a new hand or another player takes compensation from you, you may place this card and two others facedown in front of you until afterwards. If compensation is being take from you, the facedown cards may not be taken. If drawing a new hand, you receive a full hand in addition to the facedown cards.

Super: At the start of each of your encounters, you may draw one card from the deck and add it to your hoard.


MITE [M:FFG] Demands Colony or Loss of Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Bluster. As the offense, before allies are invited, if the defense has more than three cards in hand, use this power to bluster. The defense must either discard down to three cards at random or let you establish a colony on the targeted world. If the defense gives you a colony, land any ships you have in the hyperspace gate on the targeted planet. They co-exist with the defense’s ships, which do not go to the warp, and the encounter immediately ends successfully. If the defense discards down to three cards at random, the encounter continues normally.

History: Long stigmatized by others as being pests, these swarms of microscopic Mites have learned to use their omnipresence to advance their collective dream of being accepted and respected in the Cosmic community.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, after alliances are formed, if your opponent has more ships allied with him or her than you have allied with you, you may force all allied ships to return to their colonies.

Super: When you use your power, you take any cards your opponent discards as a result, look at them, and add any or all of them to your hand, discarding the ones you don’t want.


MOOCHER [O:CE] Intrudes Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Barge In. If you lose or fail to deal on the first encounter of your turn, after the encounter you may use this power. Place any empty or unused couch token in any system other than the one in which you lost. Then place one to four of your ships on it from your colonies. Couches are treated as planets in the system where they now exist.

When the offense does not invite you to ally and you have any couch colonies in his or her system, you may use this power to call ”shotgun!” The offense must either let you ally with 1 to 4 ships from those couch colonies, or let you take a card at random from his or her hand.

History: ”Hey, we both have multiple eyes. I must be your long lost third nephew once removed.”

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: After drawing destiny for your first encounter, you may mooch a colony on an empty planet in the defense's system using your ships from any colonies, ending your turn. Give this flare to the Moocher after use (or discard it, if the Moocher isn't playing).

Super: You may call "shotgun!" on either the offense or the defense. If that main player still refuses to let you ally, you may take two cards from his or her hand instead of one.


MOUTH [M:CS] Gobbles Up Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the Power to Gobble. As a main player, after alliances are formed, whenever a card would be placed in the discard pile by the opposing main player or one of that player’s allies, use this power to gobble up the card instead. When you gobble up a card, it is placed facedown on this sheet.

At the end of the resolution phase, if there are five or more cards on this sheet, use this power to belch one of those cards back up, placing it in your hand. The rest of the cards on this sheet are removed from the game.

History: Although considered more of an annoyance than a genuine threat, the Mouth can devastate the unwary with its constant eating. Anything within reach of a Mouth will likely be swallowed whole in the blink of an eye. Objects too large for a single bite will be systematically devoured to satisfy its voracious hunger.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player, after an artifact or reinforcement card is played by your opponent and its effects have been resolved, you may take that card and add it to your hand.

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may replace either main player's encounter card with one encounter card on your sheet or one card you had previously removed from play. Discard the replaced card.


MUCKRAKER [O:CD] Gets Allies Thrown Out Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Slander. As a main player or ally, at the start of the resolution phase, you may use this power to discard one card from your hand and accuse any or all winning allies of subversive intent. Each accused ally may bribe you to cancel your accusation against him or her by giving you, from his or her hand, any non-encounter card or a card of the same type (attack, negotiate, etc.) as the one you discarded. Attack card bribes must have a higher value than the attack card you discarded. Accused allies who cannot or do not bribe you must return their ships to their other colonies, and receive no rewards, colonies, or other benefits of winning the encounter.

If you are an ally and your side won, the main player on your side may exempt any or all allies from this power. You may not accuse yourself.

History: With tongues of silver and hearts of arsenic, the Muckrakers are natural soapbox politicians, never missing an opportunity to sow seeds of discord if it suits their aims. Presenting themselves as watchmen dedicated to protecting their neighbors from flim-flam artists, they secretly scheme to remove those who would stand in their way.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed, you may force one ally on either side to leave the encounter, returning his or her ships to any of his or her colonies.

Super: When using your power, you may accuse the winning main player in addition to, or instead of, any winning allies. (You still may not accuse yourself.)


MULTITUDE [M:CE] Grows Exponentially Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Exponentiation. Whenever there are no cosmic tokens on this sheet, place one on the ×1 exponential growth factor.

Whenever your color or any special destiny card is drawn from the destiny deck, use this power to double your exponential growth factor (by moving the token from ×1 to ×2, from ×2 to ×4, etc.).

Whenever a wild destiny card is drawn from the destiny deck, use this power to reset your exponential growth factor to ×1.

As a main player or ally, the value of each of your ships participating in the encounter is multiplied by your exponential growth factor when counting toward your side’s total in an encounter.

History: After discovering secrets for regenerating individual members of their species, and finding that they were unwilling to make choices about which of them should not stay alive forever, the Multitude are now boiling out into space, seeking new places to live out their many lives.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As an ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may play this flare. The value of each of your ships in the encounter is multiplied by the number of cards in your hand (not counting this flare) when counting toward your side's total.

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may multiply the value of your allies' ships by 2 when counting them toward your total.


MUTANT [O:FFG] Maintains 8-Card Hand Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Regenerate. As a main player, before allies are invited, you may use this power if you have fewer than eight cards to refill your hand. To do this you draw cards one at a time, at random, from any player(s) or from the deck. Draw until you have a full hand of eight cards.

History: Evolving on a highly radioactive and unshielded moon, the protean Mutants quickly learned to augment their silicon-based heredity. Before long they began to control and accumulate key genetic codes from other life forms, stripping opponents of their most basic defenses in a Mutant drive to transform the Universe.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player, if you win an encounter or make a deal, take one card at random from your opponent and each of his or her allies.

Super: As a main player, you may discard up to three cards from your hand before using your power to refill your hand.


NANNY [O:CE] Motivates Fantasy Flight (Essence)

You have the power of Consequences. When you are not a main player, after alliances are formed but before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to ”motivate” one or both main players. To motivate a player, give him or her one negotiate card from your hand to add to his or her hand, and give him or her a consequence from your essence card cache to place faceup next to his or her alien sheet. If a motivated player reveals a negotiate card, carry out the incentive the consequence card is returned to you and you receive one reward. If a motivated player does not reveal a negotiate cad, carry out the punishment and leave the consequence card in place to mark the timeout.

A player in a timeout may not participate in the game in any way or communicate with other players, nor may other players communicate with the player int he timeout. If that player is the offense, his or her turn ends. If that player becomes the defense, the offense draws destiny again. At the end of the timeout, the player returns the consequence card to you. In any case where play cannot progress because of timeouts, all other players’ consequence cards are returned to you.

Whenever one or more other players discard negotiate cards, you may use this power to retrieve one of those negotiate cards and add it to your hand. You play and discard negotiates normally.

History: The Nannies are engaged in a time out campaign throughout the Cosmos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Essence type power. Ally Consequence (8/8) Incentive: Receive a reward for every player who joined your side as an ally. Punishment: The Nanny dismisses one of your allies from this encounter and that player returns his or her ships to colonies. You are on timeout during the next player’s first encounter.

Card Consequence (7/8) Incentive: Draw one card from the cosmic or (if available) reward deck. Punishment: The Nanny discards one card from your hand at random. You are on timeout during the next player’s first encounter.

Colony Consequence (6/8) Incentive: Redistribute your ships among your colonies as you see fit. Punishment: The Nanny sends one of your colonies to the warp. You are on timeout during the next player’s turn.

Deck Consequence (5/8) Incentive: Draw up to five cards from the deck. Keep one and discard the rest. Punishment: The Nanny discards half of the cards (rounded up) from your hand at random. You are on timeout during the next player’s first encounter.

Hand Consequence (4/8) Incentive: Discard as many cards as you wish from your hand. Punishment: The Nanny looks at your hand and discards your highest attack card. You are on timeout during the next player’s first encounter.

Reward Consequence (3/8) Incentive: Receive 1 reward for every ship you have in the encounter. Punishment: The Nanny looks at your hand and discards any or all artifact cards and cards from the reward deck. You are on timeout during the next player’s turn.

Ship Consequence (2/8) Incentive: Release 1 of your ships from the warp. Punishment: Lose 1 ship to the warp. You are on timeout during the next player’s turn.

Warp Consequence (1/8) Incentive: Release all of one other player’s ships from the warp and receive one reward for each ship released. Punishment: Lose two ships of your choice to the warp from foreign colonies (if possible). You are on timeout during {of} the next player’s turn.

Wild: When the offense is going to have a second encounter, you may cancel that encounter. Give this flare to the Nanny after use (or discard it, if the Nanny isn't playing).

Super: You may use your power as a main player, giving your opponent both a negotiate card and a consequence card.


NEIGHBOR [M:CS] Adds All Ships in System to Attack Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Community. As a main player or ally, after the main player on your side reveals an attack card, use this power to add one to your total for each ship you have in the targeted system that is not involved in the encounter.

History: No race may have as strong a sense of community and working toward the common good as the Neighbor. While some races are secretive, solitary, or sensitive, the Neighbor is always interested in what the other races nearby are doing, and they are more than happy to lend another alien their technology or tools. Several times each year, they ritualistically come together in great masses to feast on food prepared by other Neighbors, and regale each with anecdotes everyone has heard several times before.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a winning defensive ally, if you earn defender rewards, you may add the number of ships the defense had involved in the encounter when calculating how many defender rewards you are entitled to.

Super: When using your power as a main player, you may also add 1 to your total for each ship that is not involved in the encounter that each of your allies have in the targeted system.


NIGHTMARE [O:CE] Gives Bad Dreams Fantasy Flight (Essence)

You have the power of Bad Dreams. Once per encounter, when a main player has declined to invite you to ally, or another player is on the winning side of an encounter when you are on the losing side, you may use this power to place a bad dream from your essence card cache facedown near that player. You cannot give a bad dream card to a player who already has one.

You may reveal a player’s bad dream card at any time. That player reads the card and carries out its effects (if they apply). Revealed bad dream cards are returned to you.

History: ”There are knowns – things we know. And unknowns. Meaning things we know we don’t know. And unknown unknowns – things we are ignorant of not knowing.” (Found in a journal on a backwater planet.)

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Essence type power. Being Chased Bad Dream (10/10) If another player is aiming the hyperspace gate at a colony or home planet which is not yours, instead that player is actually encountering you as the defense in your home system.

Falling Forever Bad Dream (9/10) If you are landing ships on the targeted planet as a winner in an encounter, instead your ships are falling into the warp.

Late for Work Bad Dream (8/10) If you are starting your regroup phase, instead you are actually skipping your regroup phase.

Lost the Way Home Bad Dream (7/10) If you are agreeing to a deal that involves receiving a colony, instead you are actually agreeing to a different version of that deal that replaces the colony you would receive with a card at random from the other player’s hand.

Naked in Public Bad Dream (6/10) If you are winning the game along with one or more other players, instead those other players are actually winning without you.

Out of Fuel Bad Dream (5/10) If you are starting your second encounter, instead you are actually ending your turn.

Running But Getting Nowhere Bad Dream (4/10) If you are accepting an alliance invitation, instead you are actually declining all invitations.

Seeing the Dead Bad Dream (3/10) If you are retrieving one ship from the warp during your regroup phase, instead every other player is retrieving one ship from the warp.

Teeth Falling Out Bad Dream (2/10) If you are revealing an attack card, {instead of} its face value{, the card’s value} is divided by 2 (rounded down).

Unprepared Bad Dream (1/10) If you are selecting an encounter card as a main player, instead you are actually drawing cards from the deck, giving all non-encounter cards drawn to the Nightmare, and playing the first encounter card you draw facedown as your encounter card.

Wild: When another player is establishing a colony on any planet, you may declare it to be a bad dream. Choose an empty planet or any planet where that player already has a colony. The ships land on that other planet instead. Give this flare to the Nightmare after use (or discard it, if the Nightmare isn't playing).

Super: When using your power to give a player a bad dream card, you may choose a player who already has one or more bad dream cards.


OBSERVER [M:FFG] Allies Do Not Go to Warp Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Protect. As an ally, whenever you should lose ships to the warp, use this power to instead return them to any of your colonies and keep using them.

As a main player, when any of your allies should lose ships to the warp, use this power to instead allow your allies to return them to any of their colonies of their choice.

History: Seldom interfering in Cosmic affairs, the Observers have been around for millenia, simply watching the other alien races. With their advanced technology and strange abilities, the others were hesitant to draw them into their squabbles. Now, however, it seems that the Observers have decided that the time for action has come at last.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may allow each player who allied with you to draw one card from the deck.

Super: When you launch ships as an ally or offense, you may retrieve one ship from the warp to immediately launch. As the offense, this ship is in addition to the ship you normally retrieve during the regroup phase, but does not allow you to exceed your normal limit of four ships in the hyperspace gate.


OLIGARCH [M:CE] Gets Richer as Others Get Poorer Fantasy Flight (Essence)

Game Setup: Take your five privileges as your essence card cache. You automatically start the game as the first player.

You have the power of Greed. Every time you draw a new hand of cards, including at the beginning of the game, draw one additional card.

You accumulate privileges up to the highest number of foreign colonies that has been reached by any player. Use this power whenever any one player has more foreign colonies than the number of your faceup privilege cards. Look through your essence card cache, choose one privilege, and play it faceup next to this sheet. If you are zapped, the privilege you attempted to play is removed from the game.

History: Overheard at the Oligarch’s Elite Club Squash’em: ”It’s not enough to know that I’m controlling the Universe from my holodecks, it’s that I also want to know that my ’friends’ see their lives as immeasurably and permanently less successful than mine.”

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Essence type power. Compensation Control Privilege (1/5) When you should collect compensation, collect two more compensation cards. All other players who should collect compensation collect two fewer compensation cards.

Encounter Envy Privilege (2/5) When you are a main player and reveal an attack card, add 3 to your total. All other main players who reveal attack cards subtract 2 from their totals.

Rewards Siphon Privilege (3/5) When you should receive rewards, receive two more rewards. All other players who should receive rewards receive one fewer reward.

Victory Possession Privilege (4/5) You need one foreign colony fewer than normal to win the game via the normal method. All other players need one more than normal.

Warp Claim Privilege (5/5) When you should lose ship(s) to the warp, lose two fewer ships to the warp. All other players who should lose one or more ships to the warp lose one more ship to the warp. Ships which would have been lost return to other colonies.

Wild: At the start of your turn, if you do not have more cards in hand than all other players, you may draw from the deck until you do (before returning this flare to your hand).

Super: When another player should draw a new hand, you may deal the cards for that hand to yourself, choose one card from among them to keep, and give the rest to that player.


ORACLE [M:FFG] Foresees Opponent's Card Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Foresee. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, use this power to force your opponent to play his encounter card faceup. Only after you have seen your opponent's card do you select and play your card.

History: During millenia of civilization, the ancient Oracles developed perceptiveness about the intentions of others to uncanny lengths. While reluctant to test the outer limits of their vision, they find even short-range prescience has given them the reputation of great wisdom.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may mix your hand with that of your opponent, then randomly take as many cards as you had in your hand, giving the rest to your opponent.

Super: As a main player, you may end an encounter after your opponent reveals his or her card. Your opponent takes back his or her card, all ships in the hyperspace gate return to colonies, and play continues as if a deal had been made.


OUTLAW [O:CS] Steals Cards from Opponents Fantasy Flight

You have the Power to Waylay. As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to take one card at random from your opponent and from each of his or her allies. Add those cards to your hand.

History: The Outlaws are rightly feared throughout the great expanses of space. They arrive in a fury of laser blasts, explosions, and angry threats. Their victims barely have time to react before the Outlaws have swept through a sector, pillaging and stealing loot as they go.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As an ally, if your side loses the encounter, you may take one card at random from the hand of any player on the winning side of the encounter.

Super: As the defense or a defensive ally, if your side loses the encounter, you may use this flare. Winning offensive allies must return their ships to any of their colonies instead of landing on the targeted planet.


PACIFIST [M:FFG] Wins with Negotiate Card Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Peace. As a main player, if you reveal a negotiate card and your opponent reveals an attack card, use this power to win the encounter. If you both reveal negotiate cards, you attempt to make a deal as usual.

History: A simple but ungainly race, the Pacifists long ago learned how to turn the power of an opponent against him. Always ready to demonstrate the superiority of retreat in unbalancing an aggressor, the Pacifists now seek to bring the universe to its knees by yielding at just the right moment.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, after you reveal a negotiate card and your opponent reveals an attack card, you may change your negotiate card into an attack 15.

Super: When you fail to make a deal, you may lose 2 fewer ships to the warp, while forcing your opponent to lose 2 extra ships to the warp.


PACK RAT [O:CE] Collects Objects Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Collect. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to take one ”object” belonging to the other main player and place it on this sheet. That player must then give you one of his or her ships from a colony. Place it on top of the object as an owner ID. Collectible objects: a card at random from a hand, a ship from the warp, the top card from a set of essence cards, an empty planet from that player’s system, a facedown, un-researched tech card, or a token on that player’s alien sheet, including special tokens understood to be on the sheet, e.g. those of Fire Dancer, Grudge, or Particle. You cannot take a token if doing so would make the alien power completely unusable. You may not look at facedown collected objects. Each object you have collected adds 1 to your total when you are the defense.

You may release object(s) as part of a deal with any player. Also, when you are not a main player, during the alliance phase you may release objects in trades. These trades may be suggested by any player, must involve the release of one or more objects, and may include anything that could be given as part of a deal; however, only you may gain a foreign colony from such a trade. You must accept a simple trade of a foreign colony for an owner’s object. You may use this power to finalize each alliance-phase trade. Each released object is restored to its original purpose and location and its ID ship returns to any of its owner’s colonies.

History: The Pack Rats scurry about dragging objects back home, to the chagrin of prior owners.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Deal type power.

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may take one ship each belonging to any or all players from colonies. Move each ship taken to another of its owner's colonies, or to the warp.

Super: When collecting an object, you may specify which colony the owner must choose the ID ship from.


PARASITE [O:FFG] Joins Alliance at Will Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Infest. Unless specifically prevented by another game effect (such as the Force Field artifact), when it is your turn to ally, you may use this power to ally (sending one to four ships, as usual) with one side in an encounter as if you had been invited, even when you were not.

History: Evolving late on their almost totally polluted world, the Parasites had to depend on the already dominant life forms for survival. But, so rapidly did they succeed in infesting their home planets, they now need unsuspecting hosts to carry them throughout the far reaches of space.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: When another player loses the use of his or her power due to controlling too few home planets, you may immediately establish a colony on one of his or her home planets with one of your ships. your ship coexists with any ships already on the planet. you may establish another colony each time a player regains his or her power and loses it again.

Super: As an ally, you may launch any number of ships you want.


PARTICLE [M:CE] Planets Are Paired Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Quantum Entanglement. As the offense or an ally, if your ship(s) should land on the targeted planet and that planet does not have an entanglement token, use this power to entangle it with another planet. Place one unassigned entanglement token next to the targeted planet and place its paired entanglement token (with the same letter) next to any other planet that is not already entangled.

Whenever the number of your ships on any entangled planet changes, including immediately after using this power, you must add your ships to or remove your ships from the corresponding entangled planet so that You have the same number of ships on both. Ships moved to resolve the entanglement must come from or go to your other colonies on planets that are not entangled.

Whenever you are unable to resolve an entanglement, or you have no ships on a pair of entangled planets, those planets’ paired entanglement tokens are discarded.

If an entangled planet is removed from the game, the paired entanglement tokens affecting it are discarded. Your ships stay on the remaining planet.

History: p(a,c) - p(b,a) - p(b,c) < 1... Right?

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Colony Gain type power.

Wild: You may draw one card, discard one card, retrieve one ship from the warp, or lose one ship to the warp. Then every other player must do the same, if possible.

Super: As the defense, if you win the encounter or gain a colony, you may use an unassigned pair of entanglement tokens to entangle the planet where you won or gained the colony with any other planet, as long as neither was already entangled. Immediately resolve this new entanglement.


PATRIOT [O:CS] Offers Cards to Secure Loyalty Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Loyalty. Once per encounter, you may use this power to show any player one card from your hand as a show of loyalty. If the player accepts your loyalty, he or she adds the card to his or her hand. If the player declines your loyalty, he or she must give you one of his or her ships from any colony. Place that ship on this sheet.

As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to return all ships on this sheet belonging to the opposing main player. Proceed to the resolution phase and resolve the encounter as if both players had revealed negotiate cards.

History: There is no more faithful ally to have supporting your cause than the reliable, steadfast Patriot. The species is proud of its long heritage of fidelity, while many other races find its loyalty annoying and pretentious.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As an ally, after your side wins the encounter, you may draw one card from the deck or retrieve one ship from the warp, in addition to any other benefits or rewards you may receive.

Super: As an ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may select a number of opposing allies' ships equal to the number of ships you have involved in the encounter. The selected ships are sent to the warp.


PEDDLER [O:CE] Sells Cards Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: After all players are dealt their starting hands, draw a total of 8 cards from the cosmic, reward, and/or tech decks (whichever are in the game). Look at the cards and create a ”store” of six faceup cards and two facedown cards. Cards in your store are not part of your hand, but you may look at them at any time.

You have the power to Sell. After alliances are formed, if you are not a main player, once per encounter you may use this power to sell one card, either publicly from your faceup store cards or privately from your facedown store cards. Players may offer you anything they could give you as part of a deal to buy that card. In a private sale, you may show the card to whichever player(s) you like; those not shown the card may still make a ”blind” offer. When you sell a tech card, its owner places it facedown and researches it normally. Any cards you gain from the sale must be placed in your hand.

At the end of any encounter, you may place your hand to one side while you pick up all of the cards in your store. Discard one of them. Then draw cards to restock your store back to eight from any or all of the decks available, and reopen your store with any six of its cards faceup and the other two facedown.

History: The Peddlers have been shaking hands and hawking their wares across the Cosmos and hope to be on every corner of every planet very soon!

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Card Gain type power.

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may spread your hand faceup out in front of you and sell it, with or without this flare, to another player. Players may offer you anything they could give you as part of a deal. Accept an offer or discard your hand; then draw a new hand before receiving your offer and returning this flare to whoever now owns it.

Super: At the start of any encounter, you may choose one faceup card from your store and add it to your hand. If it is a tech card, place it in front of you to research instead.


PENTAFORM [M:CD] Has Five Life Stages Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Draw five flares from the unused flare deck and arrange the matching alien powers in front of you as “life stages,“ in the order of your choosing. If any have Game Setup text or are not allowed in the current game, discard them and draw again. Remove the five flares from the game and slide this sheet partway under the leftmost life stage.

You have the power to Evolve. You use both your Pentaform power and whichever life stage it is underneath (zapping one does not zap the other).

Whenever you gain a foreign colony, use this power to move this sheet one life stage to the right (if possible). Whenever you lose a foreign colony, use this power to move this sheet one life stage to the left (if possible).

History: Evolving on the fifth moon of the fifth planet of their star system, the Pentaforms coincidentally developed with five distinct life stages. Though differing in form from one specimen to another, all Pentaforms go through cataclysmic changes from each life stage to the next: childhood, adolescence, adulthood, middle age, and seniority. They have been causing a handful of trouble for the rest of the galaxy.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Meta type power.

Wild: You may discard your current alien power and draw two cards from the unused flare deck. Choose one of these two aliens and become that alien. If either has Game Setup text or is not allowed in the current game, discard it and draw again. Shuffle those two flares into the deck. Give this flare to the Pentaform after use (or discard it, if the Pentaform isn't playing).

Super: At the start of any encounter, you may swap the positions of any two of your life stages (without moving the Pentaform sheet).


PERFECTIONIST [O:CE] Keeps Only the Best Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Be Finicky. Whenever you add any cards to your hand (including when you are dealt your starting hand), you may use this power to reject any of those cards you don’t want and stack them facedown on this sheet in a reject pile. Immediately replace the cards you discarded with new ones drawn from the deck (but you may not discard and replace any of the replacements).

You may offer cards from your reject pile as part of a deal.

When another player takes card(s) from your hand at random, you may use this power to force that player to take them from your reject pile instead (if that pile has sufficient cards).

If any player cannot draw cards because a deck and its discard pile have too few, you must discard 15 appropriate cards at random from your reject pile (or as many as you have if it’s fewer than 15) before that discard pile is reshuffled.

History: Parlaying eons of research into a 99.9% rejection of inferior products, with a sniff and a wave, the Perfectionists now pick and choose their way to Cosmic mastery, keeping only the best of the best.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Hand Management type power.

Wild: If you are unsatisfied with a card you received via rewards or compensation, you may set it aside facedown and draw or take another. Then, the set-aside card is discarded or returned to the other player, as appropriate.

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may reject any or all of your own allies. Rejected allies return their ships to their colonies.


PHANTASM [M:CS] Replaces Encounter Card Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Instability. As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power to reveal the top card of the deck.

If it is not an encounter card, discard it. If it is an encounter card, replace one of either player’s revealed encounter cards with the card from the deck, discarding the replaced card. In either case, the encounter then continues normally.

History: Often mistaken for other species, the Phantasm’s constantly roiling form makes it difficult to classify. This works well for the secretive race, as Phantasms enjoy befuddling and confusing others.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may reveal the top card of the deck. If it is an encounter card, either discard it or use it to replace (and discard) your current encounter card. If it is not an encounter card, add it to your hand.

Super: When using your power, you may continue to draw and discard cards from the deck until you have drawn two encounter cards. Choose one of the two to replace (and discard) one of the revealed encounter cards. Discard the other.


PHILANTHROPIST [O:FFG] Gives Away Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Giving. As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to give one card from your hand to either main player (your opponent, if you are a main player). Your opponent immediately adds the card to his or her hand and may play it normally. If, after using this power, you do not have any encounter cards in your hand and you are a main player, you draw a new hand.

History: Rejecting a heavy-handed, dogmatic religious background, the cynical Philanthropists have learned to parody greed itself. Knowing that the Universe cannot bring itself to reject a gift, even when it is no present, the race has grown cunning in the art of self-serving charity.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: At the start of a encounter, you may send one of your ships to the warp to lend your power to another player for the duration of the encounter. Until the end of the encounter, that player is considered to have your power instead of his or her own. The player may not refuse the loan of your power.

Super: Any player to whom you give an encounter card must play it in that encounter if he or she can.


PICKPOCKET [O:CD] Lifts Cards from Other Players Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Lift. Once per encounter, you may use this power to take one card at random from the hand of any other player who has a foreign colony in your system. Add the card to your hand or discard it.

History: The glorious civilization of the once-noble Edificabi throve for millennia before giving in to the ease of burgling over building. As production of new resources dwindled, their world fell into decline and might have faded from the annals of Cosmic history, had not an unwitting company of spacefarers stumbled upon their troubled neighborhood. Quickly relieving the visitors of every last item of value, the Edificabi – by now reduced to little more than squabbling Pickpockets – saw their chance at a better future. Empowered by their newfound spaceflight technology, they artfully turned their nefarious skills upward and outward. Centuries later, these “big dippers“ are still at work lightening the loads of their fellow travelers.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When the hyperspace gate is aimed at a planet in your system, you may take a number of cards at random from the offense's hand up to the number of ships he or she has in the gate. Keep or discard each card taken. If the offense now has no encounter cards in hand, he or she draws a new hand.

Super: When using your power, you may take a card from any or all other players who have a foreign colony in your system.


PIRATE [O:CD] Captures Ships for Booty Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Raid. As the offense or an ally, if your side wins the encounter, you may use this power. Capture one or more ships from the losing side by returning an equal number of your winning ships to your other colonies (they do not land on the targeted planet, receive rewards, or gain other benefits from winning). Place the captured ships on this sheet.

During any regroup phase, you may send up to four ships from this sheet to the warp to receive an equal number of rewards.

During any regroup phase, you may negotiate the release of any or all ships on this sheet (back to colonies) in exchange for anything their owners may legally give you in a deal, such as cards from their hands or new colonies where they already have one (although this does not count as a deal).

History: Whispering rapacious orders into their ears, a small flock of rogue traders leads its minions into the far reaches of interstellar space.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: For each reward you are to receive as a winning ally, you may take one card at random from the winning main player's hand instead of drawing a card from the deck or retrieving a ship from the warp.

Super: When using your power, you may capture up to two losing ships for each of your ships that you choose to return to your colonies.


PLANT [O:CI] Accumulates Opponents' Powers Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Grafting. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to graft any one player in whose home system you have at least one colony. If that player has not lost his or her power, you steal that power until the end of the encounter. If you lose your own power, you may not graft any power until you get your own back.

History: This species of Plant combines the longevity of the redwood, the persistence of the weed, and the delicacy of the fern. Slowly grafting to themselves the traits of others, they can afford to quietly wait until their enemies grow tired, then spread their tendrils unopposed throughout the Cosmos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Meta type power.

Wild: As a main player, after allies are assigned, you may steal the power of any ally (yours or your opponent's) for that encounter. You have the stolen power instead of your own, and the affected ally down not have the power, until the end of the encounter.

Super: If you have your own power and have a colony in the system of any player who wins the game, the win is ignored and instead you win alone.


POISON [M:CA] Has Hazardous Home System Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Toxicity. Each time a card with a hazard warning is drawn from the destiny deck, use this power. Each foreign colony in your home system loses one ship to the warp.

In addition, as a main player, if both players reveal attack cards and your opponent’s attack card value is within 2 of your attack card’s value (such as an attack 04 and an attack 06), you may use this power to win the encounter, regardless of the actual totals.

History: Born from an ooze of chemicals that are highly toxic to all other lifeforms, the Poison are greatly feared for their ability to kill with a single touch. Those who visit their homeworlds must exercise extreme caution, as even the barest whiff of the atmosphere can prove fatal.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As the offense, after aiming the hyperspace gate at a planet, you may send one ship belonging to a player other than yourself on that planet to the warp.

Super: You power may be used if you and your opponent reveal attacks cards within 3 of each other, rather than 2.


PORCUPINE [O:CS] Discards Cards for Attack Power Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Needle. As a main player or ally, if both players revealed attack cards and your side would lose the encounter, you may use this power to discard any number of cards from your hand. Then, add or subtract for your side’s total an amount equal to the number of cards you discarded.

History: Under no circumstance is meeting a Porcupine a pleasant experience. Although highly intelligent, these creatures declare vendetta with little or no provocation. They exhibit no sense of self-preservation when pursuing the target of their ill will. Rather than talking out their problems, they are more than happy to let their razor sharp quills do all their talking for them.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Hand Management type power.

Wild: As a main player, after both players reveal attack cards, you may reveal any number of cards in your hand. Then add one to your side's total for each card revealed, including this flare.

Super: When using your power, each card you discard adds three to your side's total instead of one.


PRETENDER [O:CE] Moves To Best Seat Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Take Over. As the offense, after destiny is drawn, you may use this power to take your alien sheet(s) and everything on them and move to what you consider to be the best seat. The player in that seat takes his or her alien sheet(s) and moves to your seat. Facets of alien powers, such as the Miser’s hoard, the Warrior’s tokens, and alien essence cards, move with those powers. Everything else is left behind to become the property of the arriving player, including player colors, ships, hands, planet systems, colonies, etc.

After taking over another player’s seat and taking your turn, play continues from you based on the new seating order.

History: Pretenders instinctually gravitate toward those with power and privilege. Now their sphere of possible targets has widened to include the many life forms of an increasingly complex Cosmos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Meta type power.

Wild: At the start of another player's turn, you may name a card type and ask for the best card of that type from another player's hand. If that player has any cards of that type, he or she gives you whichever one is the best from his or her point of view. Give this flare to that player after use.

Super: When you use your power, you may decide that both players must also move their hands to their new seats.


PROPHET [O:CC] Predicts Encounter Winner Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Predict. If you are not involved as a main player or ally in an encounter, you may use this power before encounter cards are selected to predict aloud which main player (offense or defense) will win. A deal counts as a win. If you are correct, you gain a colony on any one planet of your choice. If you are not correct, the winner selects any two of your ships and sends them to the warp.

History: Declaring themselves to be omniscient, the Prophets set forth into the promised vacuum of space to seek a new home in the interstellar wilderness. Are these Prophets false? Only the Eons will judge.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: Before encounter cards are selected in an encounter, play this card and secretly predict whether one or two negotiate cards will be played. Conceal that many cosmic tokens in your hand to indicate your prediction. If your prediction is correct, each other player in the game must lose a ship of their choice to the warp. If you are wrong, pass this card to the player on your left.

Super: You may predict after cards are played, but before they are revealed.


PYGMY [M:CA] Colonies Count as Half Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place the five extra planets in your home system (four in a four-planet game). Place two of your ships on each of your home planets. Your player color is the color of your ships.

You have the power of Half. Each of your home worlds counts as only half of a foreign colony for all other players (rounding down). There can never be more than four ships on any of your planets (counting yours). When determining landing order, use the timing rules. Your power cannot be zapped, lost, stolen, or copied through any means.

History: When the Cosmos was young, the Pygmies were quite large, living on twin worlds, rich with valuable resources. A gravitational anomaly caused the two planets to collide, scattering the Pygmies among the ruined rubble of their former homes. With so little space to exist, each successive generation of the Pygmy race became physically smaller, but the desire to grow their empire never diminished. The inhospitable chunks of debris on which the Pygmies now live serve only as a staging ground for their invasion of other worlds.

Restriction: Requires Unused Player Color

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Planet type power.

Wild: When a player collects rewards, he or she may only take half as many rewards as usual (rounding down).

Super: As the defense in your home system, if your opponent reveals an attack card, its value is divided in half (rounded down).


QUARTERMASTER [M:CD] Delivers Rewards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Supply. Whenever other player(s) should receive rewards, use this power. Those players announce how many rewards of each kind they will receive. You decide which colonies their ships return to. Then, you draw all of their cards together, look at them, and deliver the appropriate number to each player as you choose. If multiple sources are involved (e.g., the cosmic and reward decks), you must draw the cards as announced but may deliver them as you choose, as long as each player receives the correct number.

If you are due rewards as well, receive yours afterwards. Otherwise, when delivering the others’ rewards you may either retrieve one of your ships from the warp, or draw one extra card from a deck those rewards came from, include that card in your delivery decisions, and keep whichever card is left over for yourself.

History: The Quartermasters were first tasked with ordering supplies for other alien races. They soon found themselves handling transportation and military equipment for the entire Cosmos, taking on more and more responsibility. As time passed, the influence of the Quartermasters became more pronounced, until the line was blurred between who was giving the orders, and who was receiving them.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When a player gains cards as rewards, you may fulfill one or more of the required number with cards of your choice from your hand.

Super: If you are also due rewards when you use your power, you may mix your hand and your own reward draws together with the cards drawn for others. Deliver the others' rewards from this mix and keep what's left as your hand.


REACTOR [M:CD] Makes Aliens Super Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Before flares are added to the deck, take the flares that match all other players’ alien powers and place them faceup on this sheet. Cards on this sheet are not part of your hand. The other flares are shuffled into the deck as usual.

You have the power of Radiation. As an ally, if the main player on your side wins the encounter and his or her matching flare(s) are on this sheet, use this power to give that player his or her matching flare(s).

If neither main player invites you to ally and one of them loses the encounter, you may add the losing main player’s matching flare(s) to your hand from this sheet, discard that player’s matching flare(s) from your hand, or add your own matching flare(s) to your hand from this sheet.

When any player’s matching flare is discarded by a player other than you, use this power to place that flare on this sheet.

History: Originally an environmentally conscious race of peaceful activists, the Reactors sought to turn themselves into a source of sustainable energy. Yet the awesome power of Cosmic radiation and its mutating properties transformed the Reactors into radioactive freaks, eager to spread their sickness to other power-hungry cultures.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Alternate Win type power.

Wild: As the winning defense, you may establish one colony on any foreign planet. Give this flare to the Reactor after use (or discard it, if the Reactor isn't playing).

If at any time you play any other super flare and the Reactor is playing, you must give him or her this flare.

Super: If your side wins an encounter and you have no other flares in your hand or on your sheet, you may use this flare to win the game.


REBORN [O:CA] Filters Hand of Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Rebirth. For each ship you lose to the warp, you may use this power to draw a card.

For each ship you retrieve from the warp, you may use this power to discard a card of your choice from your hand.

History: The Reborn were once a vibrant, happy race spreading across the Cosmos. But then, one of their scientists discovered a fateful technology that allowed the older members of the race... to transfer their consciousness into the bodies of their offspring. Although this allowed them to preserve the memories and skills of their wiser members, the chance to cheat death was ultimately too tempting for the Reborn, who have since become a ghoulish race of nearly immortal beings living on in their children’s bodies.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Hand Management type power.

Wild: During any regroup phase, if the offense retrieves a ship from the warp, you may draw a card.

Super: During your regroup phase, you may discard cards from your hand to retrieve your ships from the warp on a 1-for-1 basis.


REINCARNATOR [M:FFG] Uses Powers Not in Game Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Reincarnation. As a main player or ally, when you lose an encounter (or fail to deal), use this power to reincarnate. Draw an alien power card at random from the unused pile and become that alien. If the alien has Game Setup text or is not allowed in the current game, draw again. If you lose a later encounter, discard that alien and draw a new one. This power stays with you while you use the others. Aliens with the power to copy your power may do so (copying both your Reincarnator power and whatever power you are reincarnated as), but if they lose an encounter while doing so they must reincarnate, losing their original power.

History: Having conquered the fear of death, the Reincarnators rejoice with the passing of each of their kind. Feeling kinship with all life forms, they know that those who die will soon be born again in an endless cycle.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Meta type power.

Wild: After another player besides the Reincarnator loses an encounter or fails to make a deal, you may give this flare to that player to force him or her to discard his or her current power and draw a new one. Aliens with Game Setup text or that are not allowed in the current game should be discarded and the player allowed to draw again.

Super: You don't have to reincarnate when you lose an encounter or fail to make a deal.


RELIC [M:CC] Gains Power from New Hands Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Awaken. Any time another player draws a new hand of cards (after their initial hand) use this power to immediately gain a free foreign colony on their home system on a planet of your choice.

Any time you draw a new hand of cards (after your initial hand) use this power to retrieve all of your ships from the warp, returning them to your colonies.

History: Eons ago, a warlike race of machines swept across the Cosmos, conquering one planet after another. However, before they could complete their terrible goal, they began to shut down, seeking refuge in hidden caves and beneath murky seas on countless worlds. Now, these machines have begun to awaken once more, ready to continue their ancient dreams of Cosmic dominance.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Colony Gain type power.

Wild: When retrieving one or more ships from the warp, return them to any one of your home planets, even if you currently have no ships on that planet.

Super: At the start of any player's turn, choose any player other than yourself. That player chooses and discards one card from his or her hand.


REMORA [O:FFG] Gets Cards or Ships With Others Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Cling. Whenever another player retrieves one or more ships from the warp, you may use this power to retrieve one of your ships from the warp as well. You may not retrieve a ship from the warp during the same encounter in which it went to the warp.

Whenever another player draws one or more cards from the deck, you may use this power to draw one card from the deck as well.

History: The universe's original tag-alongs, the Remoras first reached space as the valued servants of the dominant race on their homeworld. Seldom accomplishing anything for themselves, the Remoras simply make themselves useful to others and then ride their coat-tails to victory. Although other races might chide them for a lack of drive, the Remoras simply wonder why they should give up a good thing.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When another player uses a super or wild flare, you may draw a card from the deck.

Super: When another player gains a colony, you may either draw a card from the deck or retrieve a ship from the warp. If multiple players gain colonies at once, draw a card or retrieve a ship for each.


REMOTE [O:CA] Forces Others to Ally Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Control. As a main player, after your side wins an encounter, you may use this power to turn one ship in the encounter belonging to one opposing player into a remote. To turn a ship into a remote, remove the ship from the game and place it on this sheet.

As a main player, you may use this power to activate one or more of your remotes after allies are invited. Send each activated remote to the warp. Then, the players who own the activated remotes are forced to ally with you for this encounter and must each send four ships. A player must send all his or her ships if he or she has less than four. A controlled player must abandon home and/or foreign colonies to send the requisite four ships, if necessary. You cannot activate a remote belonging to the opposing main player during an encounter.

History: Evolving from a potato-like creature, the Remotes are both lazy and frightened of suffering personal harm. Why do their own fighting, they figure, when they can just use their mind control technology to get others to do it for them?

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, after alliances are formed, each of your allies must add one extra ship to the encounter, if able. However, then are not required to abandon colonies to do so. Your allies may exceed four ships in the encounter as a result of this flare.

Super: When using your power, you may turn a ship belonging to each opposing player into a remote, not just one opposing player.


RESERVE [O:FFG] Can Use Attacks as Reinforcements Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Reinforce. As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to play one or more attack cards of 06 or less from your hand as if they were reinforcement cards of their listed value.

As a main player or ally, when another player plays a reinforcement card, you may use this power and discard a negotiate card to cancel and discard that reinforcement card.

History: The Reserves became the dominant species on their home world by waiting for other beings to wear each other out and then arriving with timely force to deliver a knockout punch. Showing the effective use of timing, the Reserves call in extra strength just when they need it most.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: Whenever another player discards a reinforcement card (after playing it or not) you may take it and add it to your hand. Reinforcement cards you play are discarded as normal.

Super: You may use your power to play any attack card of 9 or less as a reinforcement.


ROACH [O:CS] Spawns Additional Ships Fantasy Flight (Uses 20 Extra Ships)

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place the 20 ships of that color on this sheet (16 if you are playing with four planets per player). Ships of this color are your roach ships. When not on this sheet, roach ships function as normal ships in every way. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power to Breed. When you are determined to be the defense during another player’s turn, you may use this power to place up to four ships from this sheet among the planets in your home system, including planets where you have no current colony.

During your regroup phase, you may use this power to place up to four ships from this sheet among your colonies outside of your home system.

Whenever a roach ship would be sent to the warp, it is placed on this sheet instead.

This alien power cannot be stolen, copied, or separated from your player color through any means. You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies.

History: The Roaches tend to scurry, scamper, and outnumber their enemies into submission. Wherever you see one, there are bound to be more. In fact, in the vast sprawling cities of Nova Yorkk, locals say you are never more than two meters from a Roach at any time.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: After gaining a colony as a winning ally, you may add up to four of your ships from the warp to the newly established colony.

Super: After establishing a colony as the offense or an ally, you may remove up to four ships from your sheet and add them to any of your colonies in any system.


SABOTEUR [M:CC] Booby Traps Planets Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Take one trap token and two decoy tokens per player (including yourself). Place these tokens face down next to any planets of your choice. Place no more than one token next to a given planet.

You have the power to Booby Trap. Any time ships land on a planet with one of your tokens next to it, use this power to reveal the token. If the revealed token is a decoy, return the token to this sheet. If the token is a trap, send all ships on the planet (including those that just landed) to the warp and then return the token to this sheet.

At the start of each encounter, you may either swap any two of your tokens (whether next to a planet or on this sheet) or take a token on this sheet and place it facedown next to any planet that doesn’t already have one of your tokens next to it.

History: Long demented by the magnetic unbalance of their own planet, the Saboteurs can see no way but their own and are determined to achieve it by violence.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: If you are a main player and share a colony with your opponent, declare your opponent's ships on one such colony hostage before encounter cards are selected. If you lose the encounter or fail to deal, the hostage ships immediately go to the warp. Hostage ships may not be removed from the colony until the encounter is ended, other than as part of a deal, regardless of other game effects.

Super: After revealing a decoy token, discard a negotiate card from your hand to treat the decoy as though it were a trap token.


SADIST [M:CC] Wins by Killing Others’ Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Inflict Pain. At the start of any player’s regroup phase, before the offense retrieves a ship from the warp, use this power to win the game if all other players have lost at least eight ships. Lost ships include ships in the warp, ships removed from the game, and ships captured by other players.

You may still win the game via the normal manner.

History: A civilization that glorifies pain and pleasure in primal, brutal rituals, the Sadists barely manage to keep their own race alive. Desiring to spread their brand of worship across the universe, these being enter the Cosmos with peering eyes, blood on their hands, and the desire to kill as many living things as possible.

Restriction: Do not use with Zombie or Healer.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Alternate Win type power.

Wild: Whenever you send another player's ships to the warp, you may draw one card from the deck for each player who lost ships to you.

Super: At the start of any encounter, choose a player with at least one ship in the warp (including yourself) and any other player. The first player retrieves a ship from the warp, then the other player sends one of his or her ships (his or her choice) to the warp.


SAPIENT [M:CA] Adds Wisdom Points Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Wisdom. Each time you win an encounter as an ally, place one token on this sheet. Each time you lose an encounter as an ally, place a number of tokens equal to the number of your ships involved in the encounter on this sheet. In either case, add one extra token if playing with four planets per player.

As an ally, after the main players reveal attack cards during an encounter, use this power to add 1 to your side’s total for each token on this sheet. Doing so does not cause you to discard tokens.

History: Brewed in the cauldron of a gorgeous planet circling a robust star in a spectacular galaxy, the Sapient culture became dominated by those who combined beauty with brilliance. Now they turn their alluring essence outward, secure in the knowledge that all life forms will desire them as allies.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As an ally, after encounter cards are revealed, add 1 to your side's total for each home colony you have.

Super: Whenever you add tokens to your sheet, add twice as many tokens as usual.


SCAVENGER [O:CS] Searches Discard Pile Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Scavenge. Whenever you lose a colony, you may use this power to search the discard pile, take one card of your choice, and add it to your hand. Whenever you would place one or more cards in the discard pile, you must instead place those cards faceup on this sheet. Cards on this sheet are not part of your hand. These cards are added to the discard pile whenever it is reshuffled to form a new deck.

You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies.

History: Few races are as resourceful as the Scavengers, a species renowned for recycling, re-using, and at times re-eating virtually anything they come across. Their gear is often cobbled together from the remnants of discarded tech from other races, augmented with seemingly random features or customization.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When you lose a colony, you may draw three cards from the deck. Add one of the cards to your hand. Discard the other two.

Super: After using your power, you may look at one player's hand and take one card of your choice.


SCHIZOID [M:CA] Changes Goal of Game Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Take the six schizoid cards, choose one of them, and place it facedown on this sheet. Take the other five schizoid cards and place them facedown in a deck near this sheet.

You have the power to Alter Reality. The schizoid card that is facedown on this sheet lists the victory conditions players must fulfill in order to win the game with a normal victory. The conditions on this schizoid card replace the normal victory condition of accumulating enough foreign colonies to win. Alternate victory conditions (such as those of the Masochist or Tick-tock) are not affected by this power. Any player who has completed the normal victory condition may play a “Cosmic Zap” on you at any time to win the game.

Each time you are on the losing side of an encounter, the winning main player randomly chooses a card from the schizoid deck and reveals it to the winner(s) of the encounter. Then, shuffle the chosen card back into the deck.

History: Long ago their system slipped into a cascading series of alternate spacetimes. Now the Schizoids believe that universal acceptance of their current reality will end their madness.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Alternate Win type power.

Wild: After the end of any encounter, you may switch home systems (and therefore player colors) with any other player of your choice. Afterwards, discard this flare.

Wild: (Classic Edition) After the end of any encounter, you may switch home systems (and therefore player colors) when any other player of your choice. Afterwards, discard this flare.

Super: At the end of your turn, you may choose a card from your unused Schizoid deck and swap it with the Schizoid card on your sheet, as long as this down not give any player an immediate win.

Super: If this flare is in your starting hand, reveal it and write a victory condition down instead of choosing a Schizoid card. The condition must 1) be possible for all players to meet, 2) be clear to all as it happens, 3) not require remembering past events, and 4) require at least 3 foreign colonies. If this card leaves your hand, reveal your written condition to all players.


SEEKER [O:CI] Asks ”Yes” or ”No” Questions Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Truth. As a main player or an ally, you may use this power after alliances are formed but before encounter cards are selected to as one ”yes or no” question of one of the main players (your opponent, if you are a main player). That player must answer your question truthfully. If your question involves the player’s intentions during this encounter (such as ”Are you going to play a negotiate this encounter?”), he or she must abide by his or her answer. Once this encounter ends, the player is no longer bound by his or her answer.

History: Evolving during an intense struggle between more developed species, the Seekers gained ecological room only by acute sensitivity to their opponent’s disposition. Always probing, they closely evaluate what is known. Lately, Seekers have turned searching eyes upon the Cosmos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: If a player invites you to ally, you may demand to see the encounter card he or she intends to play, If you ally with that player, he or she must play that card, if possible. You may only demand to see one player's encounter card per encounter.

Super: When using your power, you may ask any question, not just a "yes or no" question. The player you ask must still answer it truthfully to the best of his or her ability.


SHADOW [M:FFG] Removes Others' Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Execute. Whenever any other player's color or a special destiny card that targets another player is drawn from the destiny deck, use this power to choose one of that player's ships from any colony of your choice and send it to the warp. On a wild destiny card, you may execute one ship belonging to any other player regardless of who the offense chooses to attack.

History: After being subjected to colonial domination for thousands of years, a hive of Shadows rose up on an outpost planet in a forgotten empire. Devoted to guerilla warfare and adept at choosing the most isolated and vulnerable targets as their victims, they mercilessly cleansed their sector of its overlords. Having become imperialists themselves, however, they now have new uses for their old talents.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As the defense, when you lose an encounter and your opponent played an attack card, you may send one of your ships not in the encounter to the warp to take all opposing ships to the warp with you. In spite of winning, the opposing players do not receive colonies on your planet.

Super: When you execute a ship during your turn, you may replace it with one of your ships, retrieved from the warp.


SHERIFF [O:CE] Upholds The Law Fantasy Flight (Essence)

You have the power to Ticket. Once during each player’s turn, you may use this power to choose a ticket from your essence card cache and either discard it, or give it to any player who is committing the infraction on the ticket and has the cards or ships needed to pay the fine. That player immediately pays the fine. If the fine is in cards, you select them at random from his or her head. If the fine is in ships, the player chooses which of his or her ships to lose. The player keeps the ticket faceup.

As the fine is being paid, you may use this power to seize it as a gratuity. Add some or all of the cards to your hand instead of discarding them, or retrieve a number of your ships from the warp up to the number fined. Ten the player flips the ticket facedown and gains immunity against further tickets while he or she has the facedown ticket (as indicated by the icon on the back of the card).

When all other players have immunity or you have no tickets remaining, all tickets are returned to you.

History: The Sheriffs recognize that minor offenses left unchecked will lead to chaos. That the swift serving of justice seems to serve their own intergalactic dreams is but a by-product of their vigilance.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Essence type power. Excessive Force Ticket (1/9) Infraction: Winning an encounter by more than 10 or revealing an attack card of 20 or higher as a main player. Fine: Discard three cards.

Gridlock Ticket (2/9) Infraction: Having more than ten ships in the warp. Fine: Discard two cards.

Illegal Parking Ticket (3/9) Infraction: Having more than four of your ships on a planet. Fine: Discard one card.

Littering Ticket (4/9) Infraction: Discarding more than three cards at one time. Fine: Lose two ships to the warp.

Loitering Ticket (5/9) Infraction: Not accepting an alliance invitation. Fine: Discard one card.

Obstruction Ticket (6/9) Infraction: Canceling a player’s card or action. Fine: Discard two cards.

Panhandling Ticket (7/9) Infraction: Being able to send multiple ships as an ally but sending only one. Fine: Lose 2 ships to the warp.

Trespassing Ticket (8/9) Infraction: Aiming the hyperspace gate at a planet with one or fewer ships of the defense. Fine: Lose one ship to the warp.

Vagrancy Ticket (9/9) Infraction: Having only one ship on a foreign colony. Fine: Discard two cards.

Wild: At the start of any turn, you may play this flare in front of another player as an electronic monitor. That player cannot send more than one ship to the hyperspace gate without your permission. At the end of that turn, that player adds this flare to his or her hand, but cannot play it against you until after it has been played against any other player but you.

Super: You may ticket or discard twice per turn.


SIREN [O:CC] Entices Challengers Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Lure. Any time a player in whose home system you have a colony is chosen as the defense, you may use this power to aim the hyperspace gate at one of your home planets on which you have a colony (your choice which) and become the defense instead. The encounter then continues normally.

Any time you win an encounter as the defense, you immediately gain a free foreign colony in the offense’s home system on a planet of your choice.

History: Born on a planet of beauty and illusion, the Siren entices unsuspecting travelers into her traps. Seduced by her call, the luckless guests are totally unaware of the destruction awaiting them.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: For the rest of this encounter, each time cards are drawn from the deck, you may name a card (e.g., attack 30). If that card is drawn, it must be given to you.

Super: As the defense, before allies are invited, you may offer a colony in the offense's system to each defensive ally should you win the encounter. If you make such an offer and win, then when you gain a free foreign colony in the offense's home system, each defensive ally may either gain a free colony on that planet with you or take defender rewards as normal


SKEPTIC [O:CA] Doubles Risk of Encounter Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Doubt. As a main player or ally, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to tell the opposing player: “I doubt that you will win.” If the opposing player agrees with you and is the offense, that player ends his or her turn and all ships in the hyperspace gate return to their other colonies. If the opposing player agrees and is the defense, all offensive ships in the hyperspace gate establish a colony on the planet as if they had won (although defending ships already on the planet remain) and defending allies return to their other colonies.

If the opposing player disagrees or “double doubts” you, encounter cards are played. If one side loses or a deal fails, double the number of ships normally lost by either you or the opposing main player.

History: During growth, one colony of marine Skeptics achieved the size and organization necessary for neuronic activity. Proliferating into super-rationality, they doubt the brash claims of others and see no reality but their own.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: During the alliance phase, after you have been invited to ally, you may wait until all other players have committed ships to the encounter before you decide whether to ally or not.

Super: When you tell a player you doubt that he will win, you also tell him how many ships not in the encounter (1 to 20) are at risk (instead of your normal Skeptic method of determining risk). If he double doubts you and plays the encounter, the loser (or both if you fail to deal) loses that number of ships to the warp in addition to the ships lost in the encounter.


SLOTH [M:CS] Shows Up at Last Minute Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Take the sloth token and place it on this sheet.

You have the power of Laziness. As the offense or an ally, when you should send your ships into the encounter, use this power to send the sloth token in their place instead deciding how many ships to commit. The sloth token is not a ship.

After encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, replace the sloth token with 0 to 4 of your ships from any of your colonies. Then, return the sloth token to this sheet.

If you replace the cloth token with zero ships as the offense, you must still continue your encounter. If you replace the sloth token with zero ships as an ally, you are no longer an ally.

History: The Sloths will eventually arrive in force to take over the sector. Any time now. Just wait for it. The should be here soon.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced.

Wild: As an ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may add ships to the encounter from any of your colonies, as long as you do not exceed any hyperspace gate limits.

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may allow each player allied with you to add up to four more ships from any of their colonies to the encounter.


SNEAK [O:CS] Colonizes Attacker Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Infiltrate. As the defense, after you lose an encounter that results in losing one of your home colonies, you may use this power to immediately place your ships from the losing encounter on any one planet in the offense’s home system instead of sending them to the warp.

You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies.

History: The Sneaks are masters of disguise and stealth. In fact, there are many conflicting opinions about what the aliens actually look like, where they live, and what sort of technology they have at their disposal. This suits the Sneaks fine, as they are quick to take advantage of the confusion and insinuate themselves into other aliens’ societies.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Colony Gain type power.

Wild: As the defense, after losing an encounter, you may look at your opponent's hand before or after any compensation is collected. Take one of those cards and add it to your hand.

Super: When using your power, you may establish two colonies in the offense's home system as long as you have enough ships to create two colonies. Afterwards, give this flare to any player.


SNIVELER [O:CI] Catches Up When Behind Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Whine. As a main player, before allies are invited, if You have the most ships in the warp, have the fewest foreign colonies of any player, or lack an encounter card you want, you may use this power to whine about it. If you whine about your ships, either all other players must agree to let you retrieve all your ships from the warp, or (if possible) they each must place ships into the warp until each matches your number there. If you whine about colonies, the other players must agree to let you have one extra foreign colony of your choice or they each lose one foreign colony of their choice, returning those ships to their other colonies. If you whine about cards, you name a card you don't have (e.g., "I don't have an attack card higher than a 15"). Either one player must give you such a card or all players must discard all such cards in their hands. Whine only once per encounter.

History: The Snivelers developed in the evolutionary shadow of a closely related but older and more gifted race. Beset by adversity at every turn, they looked to their elder brethren for succor and defense. Now grown adept at self-pity and having liquidated their generous patrons they turn their wet, envious gaze toward the heavens.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When not a main player and not invited to ally at all, you may complain to one main player. If that player still down not invite you, he or she may not invite any allies (previous allies return to their colonies).

Super: If one or more other players win the game and you are within one colony of winning, the winners must either allow you to join their win or you may encounter one winning player of your choice who refuses. During the encounter, none of the previous winners may ally with you. If you win the encounter, you and all your allies win the game. If you don't, the previous win stands.


SORCERER [O:FFG] Can Switch Played Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Magic. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected, but before they are revealed, you may use this power to switch encounter cards with your opponent so that he or she reveals your card and you reveal your opponent's card.

History: Over eons the clan of Sorcerers studied the cosmic flow and learned to channel these tides to their own needs. Beginning with minor alterations in the probability patterns of matter, they progressed to transportation of objects over great distances. Undaunted by an occasional backlash of fate, they even now are humming the incantations of mastery.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: When the Sorcerer is not the main player, before cards are selected during an encounter, you may force the main players to trade alien powers with each other. They keep their new powers after the encounter ends. After using this flare, give it to the Sorcerer, If the Sorcerer is not playing, discard this flare to use it.

Super: You may use your power as an ally, switching the main players' encounter cards.


SPIFF [O:FFG] Receives Colony as Loser Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Crash Land. As the offense, when you lose an encounter, if both players revealed attack cards and your total was 10 or more less than the defense’s, you may use this power to land one of your ships that would otherwise be lost to the warp on the winning defensive planet. The ship coexists with the ships already there. This power does not allow you to coexist in places or with aliens that state otherwise.

History: Attacking vicious space monsters at incredible odds comes naturally to the valorous Spiffs. Their cunning and courage have let them save the day even when their doom seemed imminent. Let those who face them beware!

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Colony Gain type power.

Wild: As the defense, when you lose an encounter, you may leave one of your ships on the planet instead of sending it to the warp. It coexists with the offensive ships.

Super: You may use your power to crash land if you lose by a total of 5 or more instead of 10.


SQUEE [O:CS] Is Dangerously Adorable Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Unimaginable Cuteness. As the defense, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to bat your eyes at the offense and look too adorable to attack. The offense must choose whether to concede or continue.

If the offense chooses to concede, you win the encounter. Immediately proceed to the resolution phase. The played encounter cards will be discarded as usual.

If the offense chooses to continue, the offense must send any three of his or her ships to the warp. If the offense reveals an attack card and wins the encounter, you collect compensation even if you did not reveal a negotiate card.

History: The Squee are so incredibly cute that they are almost painful to behold. From their fuzzy wuzzy feathers to their adorable eyes, you just want to pick them up and love them and hug them and protect them forever. Unless you are a Locust, in which case you prefer to devour them by the dozen.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: After you lose an encounter as the defense, you may choose one other player involved in the encounter on either side. That player must send ships to the warp from any of his or her colonies equal to the number of ships you lost during the encounter.

Super: As a defensive ally, during the planning phase, you may force the offense and each offensive ally to remove one of his or her ships from the hyperspace gate. Removed ships return to any of that player's colonies.


STING [O:CA] Switches Lost Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Substitute. Each time you lose ships to the warp, you may use this power to designate another player to substitute half the lost ships instead. Return half of your lost ships (rounded down) to your colonies. Then, your substitute makes up for the saved ships by choosing an equal number of his or her own ships to lose to the warp. That player may then draw one card from your hand for each ship he or she lost. If you have too few cards, that player may draw the remainder needed from the deck.

History: Genetically sterile through a side effect of their colony’s energy shield, the Sting desperately sought a way to save themselves from extinction. In their quest, they stumbled upon a vampiric form of immortality. Emboldened, they now scour the Cosmos in search of a cure for their sterility, and woe to those who try to stop them.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: When you are required to give compensation to a player, you may choose to give it to a different player instead.

Super: You can have another player substitute all of the ships you are losing instead of just half of them.


SURGEON [O:CE] Gives Aliens Facelifts Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Draw three flares from the unused flare deck and place them facedown on this sheet as ”facelifts.” The facelifts are not part of your hand. You may look at them at any time.

You have the power of Surgery. If you are not a main player, after destiny is drawn, you may use this power to choose any other player as your ”patient” and offer that player a wild flare as a facelift. Show one flare from this sheet to the patient as a possible improvement for his or her alien power, and offer it in exchange for anything the patient could give you as part of a deal. If the two of you agree, place the facelift faceup next to the patient’s alien sheet as a temporary part of that alien power and draw a replacement for this sheet from the unused flare deck. If you do not agree, return the facelift to this sheet.

If you choose not to offer a facelift, instead you may use this power to discard one or more facelifts from this sheet, and then draw replacements from the unused flare deck until you have three.

A patient may use his or her improved alien power to activate one of its facelifts whenever appropriate, even if you have lost this power. The facelift use does not count as playing a flare, but is an extension of that alien’s power. After a facelift is used or Cosmic Zapped, it is removed from the game.

History: Nothing beats a ”cosmic cut” by a Surgeon... small fee required.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Deal type power.

Wild: You may invite other players to offer you anything they could give you as part of a deal, in exchange for any alien power not in the game that has no Game Setup text. You may accept one player's offer, giving that player the use of the alien (as an additional power) for the rest of the turn. If you accept an offer, give this flare to the Surgeon after use (or discard it, if the Surgeon isn't playing).

Super: At the start of your turn, you may give yourself a facelift from your alien sheet for free.


SWINDLER [O:CS] Steals a Player’s Identity Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Take one swindler token for each other player in the game, making sure that one of these is the mark token with the ”X” on its front. Secretly look at these tokens and place one token facedown next to each other player’s alien sheet. The player to whom you assigned the mark token is your ”mark.” You may look at these tokens at any time, but the other players cannot.

As the original Swindler, You have the power of Identity Theft. After the defense has been determined, you may use this power. Reveal your mark by flipping all swindler tokens faceup and removing them from the game. You and your mark then exchange everything in the game, including physical seats, alien powers, player colors, ships, hands, systems, planets, colonies, etc. The encounter continues, although this may change who the main player(s) are. If the offense’s color has become controlled by a different player, it is now that player’s turn instead of the original offense’s turn.

As the revealed mark, You have the power to Panic. During each other player’s start turn phase, you may use this power to immediately gain a colony in the offense’s home system.

This alien power cannot be stolen, copied, or separated from your player color through any means.

History: To a Swindler, stealing identities is like taking candy from a larval Atrachean Gooshumple.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Meta type power.

Wild: As an ally, after your side wins, you may take one card at random from the hand of one ally on the losing side.

Super: As an ally, after both main players reveal negotiate cards, you may become the main player for your side. All ships in the hyperspace gate return to colonies and you attempt to make a deal with the opponent (suffering any penalties as appropriate). If you make a deal, it counts as a success for the player you replaced.


SYCOPHANT [O:CS] Wins Through Flattery Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Place 10 tokens on this sheet (eight if playing with four planets per player).

You have the power of Flattery. If you are not a main player, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to flatter one of the main players (even if you are allied against that player). If the player you flatter wins the encounter or makes a deal, discard one token from this sheet. If there are no more tokens on this sheet, you immediately win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.

History: Eager to please all the other species in the system, the Sycophants do whatever they can to ingratiate themselves into as many alien societies as possible. The Sycophants’ philosophy is simple: flattery is the sincerest form of flattery. And flattery leads to victory. Sort of.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Alternate Win type power.

Wild: After a player wins an encounter in which you were not a main player or ally, you may give that player a hearty congratulations and retrieve one of your ships from the warp for each player who has ships on the winning side.

Super: If there are five or fewer tokens on your alien sheet, you may remove one of them. If there are more than five tokens on your sheet, you may remove tokens until you have five remaining. Afterwards, give this flare to any player.


SYMBIOTE [M:CI] Has Twice as Many Ships Fantasy Flight (Uses 20 Extra Ships)

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and take the 20 ships in that color (16 in a 4-planet game), placing twice as many ships as usual on each of your planets. Your player color is that of the planets you use. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power of Symbiosis. You have twice as many ships as normal. Your power cannot be zapped, lost, stolen, or copied through any means.

History: The environmental extremes on the Symbiote\'s home world drove its two sentient species into a mutual interdependence. Now this exceptionally tough hybrid has discovered that the warp gives this two-in-one race a distinct advantage over its adversaries.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: You may retrieve a ship from the warp during every regroup phase, not just your own.

Super: Discard this flare at the start of any regroup phase to rescue all of your ships you choose, even ones in the warp, captured, or removed from the game. Place up to eight rescued ships on each of your home planets, even if you no longer have a colony on one or more of your home planets. Your ships coexist with any ships already there, regardless of any other game effects. This flare may not be canceled through any means.


THE CLAW [M:CC] Steals Planets Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Choose one non-negotiate card from your starting hand to be your ”claw” and place it face down on this sheet; then draw a card from the deck.

You have the power of The Claw. Your claw is not considered part of your hand. Other players may not look at or draw it. At the start of any regroup phase, you may swap a card from your hand with your claw.

Once per encounter, when another player plays a copy of the card you have chosen as your claw, use this power and reveal your claw. After the end of the current encounter, choose a planet in that player’s home system and move it to your home system, sending any ships on it to the warp and making it a new home planet for yourself (although you do not get to establish a colony on it). Then, return your claw card to your hand and choose a card from your hand to become your new claw.

Each stolen planet in your home system counts as a foreign colony towards your win, even if inhabited by other players. If you gain a colony on a stolen planet in your home system, that colony counts as a home colony for you, not a foreign colony.

History: Recently, entire planets have gone missing, leaving behind only orphaned, desolate moons - one of which was marred by enormous claw marks.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Planet type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, if both revealed encounter cards are attack cards of the same value, your side automatically wins the encounter.

Super: You may use your power any time two main players reveal identical encounter cards. When this happens, choose which main player to steal a plane from (your opponent, if you are a main player). You may still only activate your alien power once per encounter.


THE CULT [O:CE] Recruits Members Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Allegiance. As a main player, before allies are invited, you may use this power to offer your opponent membership in The Cult if he or she is not already a member. If your opponent accepts, he or she places one of his or her ships on this sheet from any colony. Members of The Cult are bound by the following rules:

• When both main players are in The Cult, no alliances are allowed and all revealed encounter cards that are not negotiates become negotiates.
• When only one main player belongs to The Cult, all ships of all members of The Cult that are on foreign colonies in the targeted system but not involved in the encounter will count as 1 each toward The Cult member’s total. These ships will go to the warp if The Cult member loses.
• A Cult member may not willingly ally against another Cult member.
• A game win for a member of The Cult is a win for all members of The Cult.

When any other member of The Cult is a main player, before allies are invited, that player may lose four ships to the warp and discard four cards from his or her hand to renounce The Cult. His or her ship on this sheet returns to any colony. That player is no longer a member.

History: Once a religious retreat, The Cult is now expanding their fervor to other Cosmic systems.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may play this flare. All of your ships on foreign colonies in the opponent's system count toward your total but will not be lost to the warp if you lose the encounter.

Super: You may cancel another player's attempt to renounce The Cult.

At the start of any turn, you may denounce and remove any other player from The Cult. His or her ship on your sheet returns to one of his or her colonies.


TICK-TOCK [M:FFG] Limits Length of Game Fantasy Flight

Game setup: Place ten tokens on this sheet (eight if playing with four planets per player).

You have the power of Patience. Each time any player wins an encounter as the defense or a successful deal is made between any two players, use this power to discard one token from this sheet. If there are no more tokens on this sheet, you immediately win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.

History: Lurking in the depths of space-time beyond even the warp itself, this mechanical race waits patiently for the heat-death of the Universe, when it will rule over the strange abyss that remains. In the meantime, they subtly turn the races of the Universe against each other to prevent them from discovering a way to prevent the inevitable.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Alternate Win type power.

Wild: Each time the discard pile is shuffled to create a new deck, you may immediately establish a colony on any one of your opponents' home planets with up to four of your ships.

Super: Each time you win a challenge or make a deal, you may send one of your ships to the warp to discard a token from your alien sheet. This is in addition to any tokens you may discard through normal use of your power.


TIDE [M:CS] Makes Players Draw or Discard Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Place two cosmic tokens on this sheet.

You have the power to Ebb and Flow. After you win an encounter as a main player, use this power to place one token on this sheet. Then, you and each of your allies draw one card from the deck for each token on this sheet.

After you lose an encounter as a main player, if there is more than one token on this sheet, use this power to discard one token from this sheet. Then, the opposing main player and each of his or her allies must discard one card of their choice from their hands for each token on this sheet.

History: The Tide’s cultural philosophy is simple: go with the flow. From an early age, members of this Tide’s army are trained to react and respond to even the slightest change of plans. While some may consider the Tide’s approach to military and diplomatic matters wishy-washy, the Tide seem resolute to vacillate on issues and continue to change their minds at a moment’s notice.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As an ally, if you receive rewards, you may receive four rewards regardless of how many ships you had in the encounter.

Super: You may place one token on your sheet.


TORTOISE [M:CE] Gets a Late Start Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Dawdle. At the start of each of your turns, use this power to receive four rewards and end your turn.

Each time you draw a card as a reward, draw the top card from an appropriate deck or discard pile. Any or all cards you draw as rewards may be placed facedown on this sheet in your ”shell.” Your shell is not part of your hand and may not be used until the end of the game, but you may look at it at any time.

When the game ends, if you have not lost this power, add all cards in your shell to your hand. If you are not one of the winners, take one final turn. You cannot use this power to gain rewards and no other players may become the offense regardless of other game effects. You may have as many encounters as you can, even if they are not successful and even if you lose this power, until you either run out of encounter cards or become a winner, sharing the win with all other players who are now achieving a victory condition, if any.

Whenever you are part of a shared win, if you have not lost this power you may either accept the shared win or attempt to win alone by having one more encounter (if you still have an encounter card). Other players who were part of the shared win may not ally with you. If you gain a foreign colony, you win alone. If not, you lose the game and the other winner(s) win.

History: The Tortoises shock all by moving the finish line to where they alone can venture.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Extra Turn type power.

Wild: On your turn, if you have had two successful encounters, you may have a third if you have encounter cards.

Super: As the defense, you may refuse to allow the offense to encounter you. The offense must encounter a different player and, if required to use destiny, must draw destiny again until he or she is able to encounter a different player.


TOURIST [B:CD] Travels on Cruise Liner Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: Place the cruise liner token in your system. Now and each time the cruise liner enters your system, you may move up to four of your ships from your home colonies onto it, or vice versa.

You have the power to Sightsee. At the end of the destiny phase, if any hazard warnings were drawn during this encounter, use this power to send one of your ships to the warp from the cruise liner.

If no hazard warnings were drawn, use this power to move the cruise liner one system clockwise or counterclockwise. Then, if the cruise liner is in the defense’s system and you do not already have a colony in that system, you may use this power to disembark all of your ships from the cruise liner to any one planet there. If for any reason you do not disembark, you may use this power to send a postcard home. Return one ship from the cruise liner to any of your colonies, and then take a card at random from the hand of that system’s player.

History: Among the most curious of all the races in the Cosmos, the Tourists have no interest in conquest. They’d rather see everything, though sometimes their visits stretch on for millennia. Their neighbors often mistake these visits for invasions. Rest assured, those really are flashbulbs and loud floral prints, not explosives and camouflage!

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: You may look at the top card of any deck, or any facedown card or alien sheet, without showing it to anyone else.

Super: After your cruise liner finishes moving, you may move some of your ships onto it from a colony in the same system, even if it's not your home system.


TRADER [O:FFG] Trades Hands with Opponent Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Transference. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to trade hands with your opponent. You each then keep the new hand.

History: Originating on a Trojan Cloud in a heavily traveled star system, the crafty Traders learned to use the most valuable debris which drifted their way and discard the rest. As their numbers grew, however, they began to search out markets for their low-grade material. With a wealth of resources always at hand, they became adept merchants and soon were carefully scrutinizing all galactic transactions. Now they have begun to parlay their economic foundation into Cosmic control.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As a main player, before alliances are declared, you may draw one card at random from your opponent's hand and add it to your hand. You must then give your opponent one card of your choice (even the card you just drew) in return.

Super: You may use your power to trade hands with any player, not just your opponent.


TRICKSTER [O:CC] Wins Encounters 50% of the Time Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Possibilities. As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to manipulate probability instead of having a normal encounter. If you do so, take a cosmic token and conceal it secretly in one of your hands. The other main player then chooses one of your closed fists. You then open both of your fists, revealing which hand held the token. If your opponent chose the hand containing the token, you lose the encounter. If he or she chose your empty hand, you win the encounter. In either case, the resolution phase is then carried out as normal.

History: The Tricksters are a race of incredibly powerful beings, able to manipulate the very fabric of the Cosmos with their minds without ever leaving their homeworld. Fortunately, they have few dreams of conquest, instead preferring to select members of other alien races to toy with. Still, given their power, there’s always the chance that they could take over the Cosmos by accident.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, flip a coin. If it lands on heads, add 10 to your side's total. If the coin lands on tails, subtract 10 from your side's total.

Super: You may use your power after losing an encounter instead of before cards are selected. The outcome of your power replaces the outcome of the encounter.


TRIPLER [M:FFG] Low Cards Triple, High Cards 1/3 Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Thrice. As a main player, after you reveal an attack card, use this power to adjust its value. If the card's value is 10 or less, triple its value. If the card's value is more than 10, divide its value by three (rounded up).

History: Millennia of obsessive racing and betting has given the Triplers a knack for making something out of nothing. The unfortunate downside of such flimflammery is that they have become equally prone to making nothing out of something. The Triplers now wish to redefine the Universe as an opportunity for their final race, forcing all other beings to bet everything they have on one final mad dash across the Cosmos.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, after your opponent reveals an attack card or 15 or higher, you may divide that attack card's value by 3 (rounding up) before any other effects are applied.

Super: When you use your power, you may triple the value of any attack cards that are 13 or less instead of 10 or less.


TYRANT [M:CS] Claims Other Players’ Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Subjugate. As a main player, when you win an encounter after revealing an attack card, use this power to subjugate one involved ship from each player on the losing side. Subjugated ships are captured and placed on this sheet instead of being sent to the warp.

When you are determined to be the defense against a player whose ships you have subjugated, use this power to force that player to discard one card at random for each of his or her subjugated ships.

When you are the offense and having an encounter with a player whose ships you have subjugated, after you reveal an attack card, use this power to add the number of that player’s subjugated ships to your total.

When you would be forced to send ships to the warp, you may choose to send subjugated ships to the warp instead. You may choose to release subjugated ships as part of a deal. When a ship is removed from this sheet, it is no longer subjugated.

History: It is no surprise that upon the arrival of the Tyrant into a new sector of space, other races begin to suddenly make travel plans to distant regions. The Tyrants are one of the most despised races in the Cosmos given their brutal leadership style, which often ends in their victims’ indentured servitude.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As an ally, at the end of the encounter, you may take one card at random from the hand of each other player who sent one or more ships to the warp during the resolution phase.

Super: During your regroup phase, you may subjugate one ship from the warp belonging to each player with ships in the warp and place those ships on your sheet.


USURPER [O:CD] Makes Allies Play Encounter Cards Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Accroach. As a main player, you may use this power immediately after encounter cards are selected (before any other game effects that apply after card selection). Every ally must play one encounter card facedown from his or her hand (first drawing a new hand if out of encounter cards). Look at the cards played by your allies. You may select one of them to replace your encounter card. You may select one of the opposing allies’ cards (without looking at them) to replace your opponent’s card. All replaced and unused cards return to their owners’ hands and the encounter continues.

If a main player’s encounter card selection is forced by a game effect such as Oracle, Magician, or Visionary, this power does not affect his or her allies.

History: Tactical advisors once employed by many great races, the Usurpers seized power in a bloodless coup. Through mind control techniques and technologies, they subtly wrest control of power from their enemies, causing others to achieve their goals for them. Even allies are gently forced to commit resources on their behalf, for the Usurpers trust no one but themselves.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, before allies are invited, you may choose to have the outcome of the encounter be decided based solely on the number of allies' ships per side. Whichever side has the most ships from allies will win the encounter (defense wins ties). Skip the planning and reveal phases.

Super: You may look at the cards played by the opposing allies before deciding whether to replace your opponent's card.


VACUUM [M:FFG] Takes Other Ships to Warp Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Catharsis. Whenever you lose ships to the warp, use this power to take along up to an equal number of other ships. You specify which players must lose them, and how many each player must lose. The targeted players decide which colony or colonies the ships are taken from. Ships lost to the Vacuum this way are in addition to any ships normally lost in an encounter.

History: Suffering from severe necrophobia, the panicky Vacuum clings to others in a desperate attempt to save itself from the warp. Succeeding only in dragging innocent bystanders along, it takes solace in not going to its doom alone.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: For each main player other than you who reveals an attack card, you may retrieve one ship from the warp.

Super: You may choose which opposing ships are lost to the warp when using your power.


VIRUS [M:FFG] Multiplies in Attack Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Multiply. As a main player, after you reveal an attack card in an encounter, use this power to multiply the number of ships you have in the encounter times the value of your card instead of adding. Your allies' ships are still added to your total as usual.

History: Able to multiply rapidly in the presence of other life forms, the Virus soon overwhelmed its own planets and now waits for opportunities to proliferate throughout the Universe.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player you may multiply the number of ships you have in the encounter by the number of ships allied with you instead of adding them.

Super: You may multiply the total of all ships on your side by your attack card when using your power, not just your own.


VISIONARY [O:CC] Dictates Encounter Card Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Perception. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to specify an encounter card that your opponent must play (for instance: ”You will play an attack 06”). If your opponent does not have such a card, he or she may play any encounter card he or she wishes. If your opponent dos have the card, however, he or she must play it unless prevented by another player.

History: Once an ancient race of wandering fortune tellers, the Visionaries have recently stirred debate among philosophers throughout the Cosmos. Does the mystic sight of the Visionary merely foretell the future, or does it shape it? This intellectual debate between advocates of causationalism and free will has tended to mask the alarming growth of the Visionary empire. As for the Visionaries themselves, they loathe logic and philosophy, preferring a more intuitive approach to the problems of Cosmic domination.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As a main player, during any phase, name a specific card. Each player then secretly shows you that card if he or she has it or any other card if he or she doesn't have it.

Super: You may use your power even if you are not a main player. You must specify which main player you are using your power against.


VOID [M:FFG] Eradicates Opponents' Ships Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Eradicate. As a main player, when you win an encounter, use this power to remove the losing side's ships from the game rather than sending them to the warp. A player cannot be reduced to fewer ships than the number of foreign colonies needed to win the game. Any eradicated ships that would reduce a player below this number are sent to the warp as normal.

History: Taught from vortexhood that no other intelligent life existed, the Voids were deeply offended to learn of alien races. They are now on a holy campaign to cleanse the heavens of all gross, material beings.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: Once per encounter, you may send one of your ships not in the encounter to the warp to cancel the effect of any one artifact card. The artifact card is discarded as normal.

Super: You may use your power as an ally.


VOX [O:CS] Goes Up to Eleven Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Volume. As a main player or offensive ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to choose one revealed attack card with a value lower than 11. That card goes up to 11.

History: The Vox pride themselves on being among the loudest species in the Cosmos. In Vox society, the louder the better. Leadership is often determined by shouting matches to see who can drown out the others for dominance. Minor members of society generally open for more prominent members before such a shouting match, getting the crowd warmed up for the main act to follow.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As an ally, you may add 11 to your side's total instead of applying the number of ships you have in the encounter.

Super: When drawing a new hand of cards, you may draw up to 11 cards.


VOYAGER [O:CD] Can Have a Colony in the Warp Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Journey. At the start of your turn, you may use this power to move one of your home planets into the warp if you do not already have one there, or to exchange one of your home planets with one of your planets in the warp. Ships on that planet are both on a colony and in the warp, and may/must leave through all the usual ways for both. Ships sent to the warp do not land on the planet, but ships returning to colonies may go to a colony already on the warp-world.

Your colony on a warp-world counts as both a foreign and home colony, but other players’ colonies there count as neither. If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, return the warp-world to your system.

History: Fearless adventurers, the Voyagers traveled to the far reaches of the Cosmos, seeking answers to questions long forgotten. Hungry for new revelations, the Voyagers discovered how to access the unfathomable depths of the warp itself, establishing a presence there. With the entrance to the warp breached, others have followed the Voyagers, but none have had the same success conquering its mysteries.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Planet type power.

Wild: You may send one card from your hand (except this flare) to visit the warp, facedown. Return any of these visiting cards to your hand later at any time(s). If you lose this flare, your visiting cards are discarded.

Super: You may move a second one of your home planets into the warp.


VULCH [M:FFG] Collects Discarded Artifacts Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Salvage. Whenever any other player discards an artifact card (whether after playing it or not), use this power to add the artifact to your hand. Any artifact cards you play are discarded as normal and cannot be salvaged.

If you draw a new hand, you keep your old artifacts after revealing them, then draw eight new cards in addition to the artifacts.

History: Originally developing as a structured, bureaucratic race, only the Vulches who were most able to grasp new opportunities rose to the top. Over millions of years, this inbred scavenging talent flourished and spread throughout the race. Now, Vulches are prepared to use the discarded refuse of others to achieve their goal of universal supremacy.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: If you win an encounter (or make a deal) as a main player, your opponent gives you his hand one card at a time. Discard each card until you get one you want. You put that card in your hand and your opponent keeps what's left, if any.

Super: You may use your power to collect any discarded flares as well as artifacts.


WARHAWK [M:CC] Never Negotiates Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Attack. As a main player, when your opponent reveals a negotiate card, use this power to change it into an attack 00.

As a main player, when you reveal a negotiate card, use this power to change it into a morph card.

As a main player, if both you and your opponent reveal negotiate cards, use this power to change both negotiates into attack 00 cards.

History: The Warhawks rush into combat with no thoughts of surrender. Negotiation is not a concept they understand, and the entire Warhawk society is built upon the notion of fight or die.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: At the start of any encounter, discard a negotiate card from your hand and draw two cards from the deck to replace it.

Super: If you play a negotiate card and lose the encounter or fail to make a deal, you collect compensation.


WARPISH [M:FFG] Adds Ships in Warp to Total Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Necromancy. As a main player, after you reveal an attack card in an encounter, use this power to add 1 to your total for each ship (yours or otherwise) in the warp.

History: Born of the slime and unpalatable scum in the most repulsive bars on dying planets, the Warpish seeks the pall of miserable places. Now it has found comfort in the despairing ambiance of the Cosmic warp.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Expert. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, after cards are revealed, you may add 1 to your side's total for each ship you have in the warp.

Super: As a main player, after cards are revealed, you may force your opponent to subtract 1 from his side's total for every ship he has in the warp.


WARRIOR [M:FFG] Adds Experience Points Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Mastery. After an encounter in which you were a main player, add one token to this sheet if you won that encounter (or made a deal during it) or two tokens if you lost that encounter (or failed to make a deal during it). In either case, add one extra token if playing with four planets per player.

As a main player, after you reveal an attack card in an encounter, use this power to add 1 to your total for each token you have on this sheet. Tokens are not discarded from this sheet after doing so.

History: Once considered ferocious but dull-witted by more ”enlightened” races, the Warrior clans were bred as fighting stock for the petty squabbles of their lords. Throughout the ages, however, they have learned the value of both defeat and victory. This wisdom gives them mastery over those who would sneer at their potential.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: When you are the defense, immediately after the encounter is over, you may encounter the offense in his or her home system. After your encounter, the normal order of play continues where it left off.

Super: You may use your power to add your tokens to your side's total even as an ally.


WHIRLIGIG [O:CD] Mixes Two Hands Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Swirl. As a main player, during the planning phase, you may use this power to mix the other main player’s hand with your own. You and your opponent put your hands facedown on the table, and you mix them together. Then, choose how they will be returned:

• Even Steven: Both players get an equal number of cards. If there is an odd number, you get the extra card. • As Is: Each player gets the same number of cards they originally had. • Switcheroo: Each player gets the number of cards the other player originally had.

Once you decide, the other main player takes his or her assigned number of cards at random from the mixed hands. You take the rest.

History: A seemingly wacky species, the Whirligigs are actually quite clever. As they swirl from planet to planet, those they encounter are left befuddled. Less becomes more, high becomes low, and good becomes bad. The uncertainty caused when the Whirligigs come to call lingers long after they have left.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power. illustrated by Andrew Olson

Wild: As a main player, during the planning phase, you may take one card at random from your opponent's hand and mix it with any one card from your own hand. Your opponent chooses which card to take back.

Super: When using your power, you may look at your opponent's hand before mixing the cards together.


WILL [M:FFG] Not Controlled by Destiny Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Choice. As the offense, after you draw from the destiny deck, use this power to encounter any alien on any planet of your choice instead of encountering the alien mandated by the drawn destiny card (for example, you could choose to encounter the Virus' ships on the Mind's planet, even if you were actually directed to have an encounter with the Oracle by the destiny card). Any other effects caused by the drawn destiny card still take place as usual.

History: Arising on a cold and barren asteroid, the Wills gave no thought to legal niceties in their relentless struggle to capture the faint rays of a dying star. Unfairly charged with preying upon the weak, they wish only to find locations in which they may spread their solar membranes, unopposed.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: As the offense, when you draw a player's color from the destiny deck, you may have an encounter with that player in any system, not just his or her home system.

Super: You may look at any one other player's hand before deciding who to encounter.


WINNER [M:CA] Gains Extra Colonies Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Win More. As a main player, after both players reveal attack cards and you win the encounter by 10 or more, use this power to immediately gain one free foreign colony on a planet of your choice in any system.

History: From the time their ancestors crawled out of the crystal blue sea on a paradisiacal world under a particularly lucky sun, the Winners have always been incredibly fortunate. Random factors have a bizarre tendency to go their way, and the stars always seem to shine down just a little bit brighter on them. Now, as they casually sail out into the Cosmos under a favorable solar wind, they know that they will soon take their place as the rulers of the Universe. After all, they’re Winners – it’s what they do

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: At the start of your turn, gain a free colony on a planet of your choice in any system. Afterwards, give this flare to the Winner if he is player. Otherwise, discard it.

Super: When using your power, you receive a free colony for each set of 10 (rounded down) you win the encounter by.


WORM [O:CS] Re-Aims Hyperspace Gate Fantasy Flight

Game Setup: You may distribute your ships among your planets however you wish as long as there is at least one ship on each planet.

You have the power to Tunnel. As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to re-aim the hyperspace gate anywhere the offense can have a legal encounter against the defense (in any system), as long as the offense does not already have a colony there. All offensive and allied ships move along with the gate and the encounter continues normally.

History: Evolving beneath the rolling sands of the deserts of their home worlds, the Worms became adept at mounting surprise attacks and befuddling aggressors. As this fledgling race expands into the Cosmos, no alien knows where they will surface next.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Rules type power.

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may move ships from any of your colonies to one planet in your home system that does not have a colony.

Super: You may use your power as an ally.


WORMHOLE [O:CS] Commits Ships from Warp Fantasy Flight

You have the power to Translocate. As the offense or an ally, when committing ships to an encounter, you may use this power to commit your ships from the warp and/or from your colonies. As a main player, whenever one of your allies commits ships to the encounter, you may use this power to allow that ally to commit those ships from the warp and/or from his or her colonies.

This power does not allow players to exceed the normal limit of four ships in the encounter.

History: The bizarre Wormhole is renowned for its ability to seemingly appear out of nowhere. In fact, the Wormhole has the socially awkward distinction of being the race to startle more unassuming aliens than any other.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: As an ally, after you commit one or more ships to an encounter, you may retrieve up to the same number of your ships from the warp and add them to the encounter. This may result in you having more than four ships in the encounter.

Super: As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may release up to four ships from the warp belonging to any one player who has ships in the encounter (even yourself). Add these ships to any ships that player already has involved in the encounter.


XENOPHILE [M:CC] Gains Strength from Tourists Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Welcoming. As a main player, after both main players reveal attack cards, use this power to add or subtract 3 from your side’s total for each foreign colony in your home system.

You do not lose your power because of having too few home colonies.

History: One of the most gregarious, friendliest races in the universe, the Xenophiles have had their homeworld invaded 20 times by hostile aliens - and never once noticed. Orders given to them by the invaders were cheerfully carried out, until the invaders eventually grew exasperated with the relentlessly cheerful Xenophiles and left of their own accord. The Xenophiles, for their part, are looking forward to the next batch of ”tourists” who they can make feel at home.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Combat type power.

Wild: As a main player, after both players reveal attack cards, add 1 to your side's total for every foreign colony in your home system.

Super: After a shared win occurs, you also win the game, regardless of how many foreign colonies you have.


YIN-YANG [O:CD] Allies with Both Sides Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Balance. When you are invited to join both sides of an encounter, you may use this power to ally with both sides. If you ally with both sides and the defense loses, for each ship you have allied with the offense, the defense may keep one of his or her losing ships on the planet instead of sending it to the warp. If you ally with both sides and the offense loses, for each ship you have allied with the defense, the offense may receive one reward.

When a main player declines to invite you to ally, you may give that player one of your yin-yang tokens. Each main player who has a yin-yang token when his or her opponent loses ships to the warp from the encounter must lose an equal number of ships from his or her colonies. At the end of each encounter, place both yin-yang tokens on this sheet.

History: For as long as intelligent life has existed, the mysterious aliens known only as the Yin-Yangs have garnered influence and control over the positive and the negative, the masculine and the feminine, and the meek and the bold aspects of the Cosmos. Through their efforts in balancing power, they are certain to maintain equilibrium with their enemies.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Advanced. This is a Alliance type power.

Wild: When you lose ships to the warp, you may choose another player who, in your opinion, caused you to lose those ships. That player loses the same number of ships as you did.

Super: When you are allied on both sides of an encounter, you may return your losing ships to any of your colonies instead of sending them to the warp.


ZOMBIE [M:FFG] Never Goes to Warp Fantasy Flight

You have the power of Immortality. Whenever you should lose ships to the warp, use this power to instead return them to any of your colonies and keep using them.

In addition, you may free any player's ships from the warp (back to any colonies he or she has) as part of a deal.

History: Shadowy forms on a dark and murky world, Zombies prized all sources of energy. They could flourish only by careful recycling of their own kind. Living on decomposed organic matter, they abhor the needless waste of war and have developed effective techniques to make sure their numbers will not be reduced.

Notes: The recommended experience level for this power is Novice. This is a Resource type power.

Wild: Each time you lose ships to the warp, you may prevent one of your ships from going to the warp, instead returning it to one of your colonies.

Super: Each player who allies with you during an encounter may retrieve one ship from the warp (if any) and place it in the encounter. This ship does not count towards a player's normal limit of four ships in an encounter.